The only part of the body that has no blood supply is the cornea of the eye. It receives oxygen directly from the air.
The human brain has a memory capacity which is the equivalent of more than four terabytes on a hard drive.
A newborn child can breathe and swallow at the same time for up to seven months.
Your skull is made up of 29 different bones.
Nerve impulses sent from the brain move at a speed of 274 km/h.
A single human brain generates more electrical impulses in a day than all the telephones of the world combined.
The average human body contains enough sulphur to kill all the fleas on the average dog, enough carbon to make 900 pencils, enough potassium to fire a toy cannon, enough fat to make seven bars of soap and enough water to fill a 50-litre barrel.
The human heart pumps 182 million litres of blood during the average lifetime.
50,000 cells in your body died and were replaced by new ones while you were reading this sentence.
The human embryo acquires fingerprints within three months of conception.
Women's hearts beat faster than men's.
A man named Charles Osborne hiccupped for a total of 68 years.
Right-handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left-handed people.
About two thirds of people tilt their head to the right when kissing.
The average person forgets 90% of their dreams.
The total length of all the blood vessels in the human body is about 100,000 km.
On average, a person's respiration rate is one third higher in spring than in autumn.
By the end of a person's life, they can recall, on average, around 150 trillion pieces of information.
We lose 80% of our body heat from the head.
When you blush, your stomach also turns red.
A feeling of thirst occurs when water loss is equal to 1% of your body weight. The loss of more than 5% can cause fainting, and more than 10% causes death from dehydration.
At least 700 enzymes are active in the human body.
Human beings are the only living things which sleep on their backs.
The average four-year-old child asks 450 questions a day.
Not only human beings, but also koalas have unique finger prints.
Only 1% of the bacteria can result in the human body becoming ill.
Everyone alive on Earth could comfortably be placed into a cube with sides 1000 meters long.
The scientific name for the belly button is the umbilicus.
Teeth are the only part of the human body which cannot heal themselves.
On average, a person needs seven minutes to fall asleep.
Right-handed people chew most of their food on the right side of their mouth, whereas left-handed people do so on the left.
Only 7% of people are left-handed.
The fragrance of apples and bananas can help a person to lose weight.
If allowed to grow for their whole lifetime, the length of someone's hair would be about 725 kilometres.
Out of all the people who can move their ears, only one third of them are able to move just one ear.
During their lifetime, a person will on average accidentally swallow eight small spiders.
The total weight of the bacteria in the human body is 2 kg.
99% of the calcium contained in the human body is in one's teeth.
Human lips are hundreds of times more sensitive than the tips of a person's fingers.
A kiss increases a person's pulse to 100 beats per minute or more.
The total strength of masticatory muscles on one side of your jaw is equal to 195 kilograms.
A person passes on 278 different types of bacteria to another person when they kiss them. Fortunately, 95% of them are not harmful.
Parthenophobia is a fear of virgins.
If you collected all the iron contained in the human body, you would get just a small cog, big enough only for use in your watch.
There are more than 100 different viruses which cause a cold.
If someone kisses another person for a certain amount of time, this is much more effective in terms of hygiene than using chewing gum, as it normalises the level of acidity in your oral cavities.
You can lose 150 calories per hour if you hit your head against the wall.
Human beings are the only animals which can draw straight lines.
Human skin is completely replaced about 1,000 times during a person's lifetime.
A person who smokes a pack of cigarettes a day is doing the equivalent of drinking half a cup of tar a year.
Women blink about two times less often than men.
The structure of the human body contains only four minerals: apatite, aragonite, calcite, and crystobalite.
A passionate kiss causes the same chemical reactions in the brain that skydiving and firing a gun do.
Men are officially classified as dwarves if their height is below 1.3 m, whereas for women the measure is 1.2 m.
Fingernails grow about four times faster than your toenails.
People with blue eyes are more sensitive to pain than others.
Nerve impulses in the human body move at about 90 m/s.
100,000 chemical reactions occur in the human brain every second.
Everyone has dimples on their lower back, but on some people they are more pronounced than on others. They appear where the pelvis joins with the sacrum, so their appearance makes sense.
If one identical twins lacks a certain tooth, the other twin will not have that tooth either.
The surface area of the human lungs is approximately equal to the area of a tennis court.
During a person's lifetime, they spend about 2 weeks kissing.
The facial hair of a blonde-haired man grows faster than that of a man with dark hair.
Leukocytes in the human body live for two to four days, and erythrocytes for three to four months.
The strongest muscle in the human body is the tongue.
The human heart is approximately equal in size to that of a person's fist. An adult's heart weights 220-260 grams.
At birth, there are 14 billion cells in the human brain. This number does not increase throughout a person's lifetime. After 25 years, the number of cells falls by 100,000 every day. About 70 cells die in the minute it takes you to read a page in a book. After 40 years, the decline of the brain accelerates sharply, and after 50 years neurons (that is, nerve cells) shrink and the brain gets smaller.
At birth, a child's body is made up of around 300 bones. But an adult has just 206.
During a person's lifetime, the small intestine is about 2.5 meters. After they die, the muscles in the walls of their intestine relax, and it's length increases to 6 meters.
Your right lung can take in more air than your left.
An adult person performs around 23,000 inhalations and exhalations a day.
The smallest cells in a man's body are sperm cells.
There are about 40,000 bacteria in the human mouth.
Each of us has around 2,000 taste buds.
The human eye can distinguish 10 million different colours.
The chemical compound in the body which causes feelings of ecstasy (phenylethylamine) is also contained in chocolate.
The human heart pumps blood at such pressure that it would be able to raise blood up to the fourth floor of a building.
A person burns more calories when they are asleep than when they watch TV.
Children grow faster in the spring.
Every year more than 2 million left-handed people die because of mistakes they make when using machines designed for right-handed people.
It turns out that one man in every three hundred is capable of satisfying themselves orally.
A person uses 17 muscles when they smile, and 43 when they frown.
By the age of 60 most people lose half of their taste buds.
The rate at which a person's hair grows doubles during an airplane flight.
One percent of people can see infra-red light and 1% can see ultra violet radiation.
If you were locked in a completely sealed room, you would not die due to a lack of air, but from carbon dioxide poisoning.
Statistically, only one person out of two billion reaches the age of 116 years old.
On average, a person says 4,800 words in 24 hours.
The retinas inside the eye cover about 650 square mm and contain 137 million light-sensitive cells: 130 million are for black and white vision and 7 million are for helping you see in colour.
Our eyes remain the same size as they were at birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
In the morning, a person is about 8 millimetres taller than in the evening.
The muscles which help your eyes to focus complete around 100,000 movements a day. In order to make your leg muscles do the same amount of movements, you would need to walk 80 kilometres.
A cough amounts to an explosive charge of air which moves at speeds up to 60 miles per hour.
According to German researchers, the risk of having heart attack is higher on Monday than on any other day of the week.
Bones are about 5 times stronger than steel.
It is impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
Ingrown toenails are hereditary.
A person would die quicker from a total lack of sleep than from hunger. Death would occur after ten days without sleep, whereas from hunger it would take several weeks.
The average life expectancy is 2,475,576,000 seconds. During this time we pronounce, on average, around 123,205,750 words and have sex 4,239 times.
A tongue print is absolutely unique; remember this when showing it to somebody!
A single hair can hold the weight of a hanging apple. However, scientists don't specify the dimensions of the apple.
The number of bacteria in a person's mouth is equal to the number of people living on Earth, or even more.
Nails that are soft and brittle, with no moon, could indicate an overactive thyroid.
The speed of an incoming brain impulse is about 400 km/h.
There are not just four different blood types as we used to think, but in fact 29! The rarest of them belongs to the Bombay subtype, which is common for a small group of families in Japan.
Over the course of just one day, our blood 'runs' the distance of 19,312 kilometers.
The total length of all the nerves in the human body is 75 kilometers.
A human makes approximately 20,000 breaths per day.
Almost all people in the world have special mites on their eyelashes called demodex.
A human eye can distinguish up to 10 million different colors. But our brain can't remember all of them.
Our ears keep on growing throughout our lives with almost unbelievable speed — a quarter of a millimeter per year!
The heart beats 35 million times a year. Yes, 35 million. A year!
Every day, the human body loses about one million skin cells — that amounts to 2 kilos every year.
1 square centimeter of your skin contains around a hundred pain sensors.
Boys have fewer taste buds on the surface of their tongues than girls do.
The average person consumes about 35 tons of food during his or her life.
Teaching Ideas and Classroom Activities for Health Care
A human spends about five years of their life blinking. Fortunately, we can do many other things simultaneously!
100,000 chemical reactions occur every second in our brains.
The Hidden Spirituallity of Men
The speed of your sneeze is 160 km/h.
Smiling triggers 17 muscles of the face while crying activates 43. So smile more!
. The brain is more active at night than during the day. Scientists don't know yet why this is.2. The higher your IQ, the more you supposedly dream.3. Facial hair grows faster than any other hair on the body. 
The nail on the middle finger grows faster than the other fingernails.
Fingernails grow nearly four times faster than toenails.
The lifespan of a human hair is 3 to 7 years on average.
The acid in your stomach is strong enough to dissolve zinc. It doesn't destroy the stomach because the stomach walls constantly renew themselves.
Women's hearts beat faster than men's.
Women blink twice as many times as men do.
Women are born better smellers than men and remain better smellers over life.
Men burn fat faster than women by a rate of about 50 calories a day.
Men get hiccups more often than women.
A man has approximately 6.8 liters of blood in the body while women have approximately 5 liters.
The largest cell in the body is the female egg and the smallest is the male sperm.
During your lifetime, you will produce enough saliva to fill two swimming pools.
Babies are born with blue eyes more than any other color. The melanin in their eyes needs time to be fully deposited or to be darkened by ultraviolet light to reveal the baby's true eye color.
Men have erections every hour to hour and a half during sleep. This is because the combination of blood circulation and testosterone production can cause erections during sleep and are a necessary part of REM sleep.
Your nose shapes the sound of your voice.
Noise causes the pupils of your eyes to dilate. Even very small noises can do this.
These Common Antidepressants Could be Causing Dementia!
Incredible! This Is What Love Does to Your Body
INTERACTIVE: A Guide to the Workings of the Human Body
Time to Sleep: This Health Shake Will Put You Down!
Everyone has a unique smell, unique fingerprint, and unique tongue print.
By age 60, most people will have lost half their taste buds.
Your eyes remain the same size after birth but your nose and ears never stop growing.
A simple, moderately severe sunburn burns the blood vessels extensively.
We are about 1cm taller in the mornings than in the evenings.
The strongest muscle in the body is the human tongue. 
The hardest bone in the human body is the jawbone.
The hands and feet contain almost half of the total bones in the human body.
About 32 million bacteria call every inch of your skin home, but they are mostly harmless and some of them are even helpful.
Humans shed and regrow outer skin every 27 days.
The first ever cell that originated on Earth was a Prokaryotic cell.
The colder the room you sleep in, the higher the chances are that you would get a nightmare.
Humans are the only species that produce emotional tears.
All babies are color blind at birth, they see only black and white.
The only part of your body that has no blood supply is the cornea in the eye. It gets its oxygen directly from air.
A normal human being can survive 20 days without eating but can survive only 2 days without drinking.
It is impossible to kill yourself by choking yourself with your hands.
Everybody has one strong eye and one weak eye.
Your skeleton keeps renewing itself every ten years, which means that every ten years you get a new skeleton. 
The human feet have 500,000 sweat glands and can produce more than a pint of sweat a day.
Nerve impulses can travel as fast as 170 miles per hour.
Your brain is more active at night.
The average person loses between 60 and 100 strands of hair each day.
A human hair can support 3.5 ounces.
Three hundred million of your body's cells die every minute...
Blonde people have more hair.
300 billion new cells are created each day.
Your body contains enough iron to make a 3-inch nail.
Blood type 'O' is the most common blood type in the world.
Tears and mucus contain an enzyme called lysozyme which breaks down the cell wall of many kinds of bacteria.
On average, right-handed people live up to 9 years longer than lefties.
It is impossible to tickle yourself.
You create more earwax when you are afraid.
The body heat you produce in half an hour is enough to boil half a gallon of water.
Lips are reddish due to a large number of capillaries hidden under the skin.
Pound for pound, bone is actually stronger than steel.
You need to use 200 muscles to take a single step.
The only part of the body that can't repair itself is the tooth.
It takes 43 muscles to frown, but only 17 to smile!
Babies have 300 bones, while adults only have 206.
More than 9 out of 10 diseases are caused or aggravated by stress.
Heart attacks are 20% more likely to occur on Mondays.
By the age of 60, 40% of women and 60% of men will snore regularly.
Identical twins have the same natural smell.
A nose can remember up to 50,000 unique scents.
There are actually 14 different basic nose shapes.
Approximately a third of humanity has 20-20 vision.
Your eyes start to develop two weeks after you are conceived.
Everyone once spent around half an hour as a single cell.
One out of every 2,000 babies is born with at least one tooth.
You lose about 4kg of skin cells each year.
Your teeth begin to grow around 6 months before birth.
The average person farts around 14 times a day.
Your feet can produce over a pint of sweat each day.
Around 75% of human waste is composed of water.
A full bladder can swell to the size of a softball.
Germs from coughs travel at around 60 miles per hour.
Human hair is practically indestructible.
The small intestine is the biggest internal organ.
A sneeze is able to travel at over 100 miles per hour.
Only after you've lost more than half of your hair will people begin to notice.
Your stomach acid is powerful enough to dissolve a razor blade.
Your body has around 60,000 miles of blood vessels.
Your stomach lining renews itself every 3-4 days.
A human lung's surface area is roughly the same as that of a tennis court.
The liver has over 500 unique functions.
Your adrenal glands keep changing size throughout your life.
Your right lung is larger than your left lung.
The aorta has a diameter that's similar to that of a garden hose.
Your brain can store five times the amount of information as the Encyclopedia Britannica.
Your brain itself is unable to experience pain.
Around 10,000 human cells could fit on a pin head.
It is the waste products of sweat, and not sweat itself, that smell bad.
A passionate kiss causes the same chemical reactions to take place that firing a gun and bungee jumping do.
A drop of blood contains around 250,000 platelets.
You have taste buds other places besides your tongue.
You have approximately 2,000 different taste buds.
Children grow faster in the spring.
Your eyes can distinguish around 10 million different hues.
Ingrown toenails are hereditary.
Your mouth produces about one litre of saliva each day!
Your brain is sometimes more active when you're asleep than when you're awake.
Laid end to end, an adult's blood vessels could circle Earth's equator four times!
The word "muscle" comes from Latin term meaning "little mouse", which is what Ancient Romans thought flexed bicep muscles resembled.
Bodies give off a tiny amount of light that's too weak for the eye to see.
The average person has 67 different species of bacteria in their belly button.
You lose about 4kg of skin cells every year!
Babies don't shed tears until they're at least one month old.
Information zooms along nerves at about 400kmph!
The human heart beats more than three billion times in an average lifespan.
Did you know we have a FREE downloadable primary resource about the human heart? Great for teachers, homeschoolers and parents alike!
Your left lung is about 10 percent smaller than your right one.
Human teeth are just as strong as shark teeth.
Scientists estimate that the nose can recognise a trillion different scents!
Humans are the only species known to blush.
Your blood makes up about eight percent of your body weight.
The cornea is the only part of the body with no blood supply – it gets its oxygen directly from the air.
The human body contains enough fat to make seven bars of soap.
Embryos develop fingerprints three months after conception.
Between birth and death, the human body goes from having 300 bones, to just 206.
Hearts can beat outside of their bodies.
When you blush, the inside of your stomach does too.
There are certain kinds of tumors that can grow their own teeth and hair – they're called teratomas.
Humans are bioluminescent, the light just isn't perceptible to the human eye.
Another human body fact? All mammals have "diving mechanism" that keeps them from drowning.
Humans have a "diving reflex" that shuts down bodily functions when submerged in water to prevent drowning.
Astronauts can grow up to two inches taller in space.
Your brain can survive for five to 10 minutes without oxygen.
In cases of extreme starvation, the brain will begin to eat itself.
When listening to music, your heartbeat will sync with the rhythm.
The small intestine is roughly 23 feet long.
One quarter of your bones are in your feet.
Every organ you have two of, you only need one of to survive.
You are taller in the morning than you are at night.
You can't breathe and swallow at the same time.
There are more than 100,000 miles of blood vessels in your body.
A quarter of your bones are in your feet – and, bonus, babies have 94 more bones than adults do.
Your left kidney is higher up than your right kidney.
Your ears and your nose never stop growing.
"Pregnancy brain" is totally real – Women's brains actually shrink during pregnancy.
If you smoothed out all of the wrinkles in your brain, it would lay flat the side of a pillowcase.
Stomach acid can dissolve metal. If it touched your skin, it would burn right through it.
At some point, you may have fought cancer.
Tongue prints are as unique as fingerprints.
Babies only blink once or twice a minute, while adults average 10 times a minute.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour.
The average person produces enough saliva in their lifetime to fill two swimming pools.
While awake, your brain produces enough electricity to light a small bulb.
The jaw muscle is the stongest in the human body.
While awake, your brain produces enough electricity to light a lightbulb.
In camera terms, the human eye is about 576 megapixels.
You carry, on average, about four pounds of bacteria around in your body.
The highest recorded fever ever was 115 degrees Fahrenheit.
50 percent of your hand strength comes from your pinky finger.
Men's testicles hang below their bodies because sperm dies at body temperature
Cornflakes have more genes than humans do.
Cornflakes have more genes than people do.
You might feel like you got a workout, but having sex only burns about 3.6 calories a minute.
Humans can't digest grass.
The scientific name for stomach growls is "borborygmus."
The largest bone in the human body is the femur. It can support 30 times the weight of a person's body. Ounce for ounce, that's stronger than steel.[15]
Messages from the human brain travel along nerves at up to 200 miles an hour (322 km/h).[15]
In an adult human, 25% of their bones are in the feet.[6]
The gluteus maximus is the body's largest muscle.[10]
A human's ears and nose never stop growing.[18]
A human's little finger contributes over 50% of the hand's strength.[11]
It would take a someone typing 60 words per minute, eight hours a day, around 50 years to type the human genome
If a human being's DNA were uncoiled, it would stretch 10 billion miles, from Earth to Pluto and back.[18]
There are more bacteria in a human mouth than there are people in the world.[18]
Within three days of dying, the enzymes that digested a person's food will begin to diegest that person's body.[18]
For an adult human, taking just one step uses up to 200 muscles.[18]
A human skeleton renews itself completely every 10 years.[17]
The same skin cells that make up a human vagina are the same type of cells that are in a human mouth.[18]
By the time a person reaches 70 years old, he or she will have consumed over 12,000 gallons of water.
Bone is five times stronger than a steel bar of the same width, but it is brittle and can fracture on impact.[18]
The body can detect taste in .0015 seconds, which is faster than the blink of an eye.[18]
The taste cells in our taste buds live for only about two weeks
Taste buds are not visible to the naked eye; the little bumps that can be seen on the tongue are actually papillae, on top of which rest the taste buds[18]
There are ten times more bacteria cells in your body than human cells.[18]
The brain contains 86 billion nerve cells joined by 100 trillion connections. This is more than the number of stars in the Milky Way.[18]
The largest cell in the human body is an egg (or ovum) and is barely visible to the naked eye.[6]
Like fingerprints, each human tongue has its own unique print.[1]
Every hour, humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin, or about 1.5 pounds every year. By the time a person is 70 years old, they will have lost about 105 pounds of skin.[1]
The average human produces 25,000 quarts of saliva in a lifetime, enough to fill two swimming pools.[15]
Amazing Facts about the Human Body
Your spit contains your entire genetic blueprint
The lining in a person's stomach is replaced every 4 to 5 days to prevent it from digesting itself.[1]
An adult humans small intestine is about 18 to 23 feet long, which is about four times as long as an adult is tall.[1]
Semen normally contains 1-8 billion sperm per fluid ounces (140-300 million sperm per millimeter).[6]
A person's feet has about 500,000 sweat glands and can produce about a pint of sweat a day.[1]
A human sneeze can travel about 100 mph or more.[1]
Fingernails grow faster on the hand a person writes with. They also grow faster than toenails, and faster on longer fingers.[1]
An adult is made up of 7,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 (7 octillion) atoms
An adult human body is made up of about 7 octillion atoms.[10]
The strongest muscle in the human body is the masseter, or the jaw muscle.[6]
The liver the largest internal organ and is the only organ that can regenerate itself. However, repeated damage to the liver can eventually injure and scar this amazing organ.[10]
The human brain uses just as much power as a 10-watt light bulb.[17]
The word "organ" comes from an old Greek word, organon, which means "tool" or "instrument."[18]
There are so many nerve cells in a human brain that it would take almost 3,000 years to count them.[18]
An adult's skin weighs between 8 and 11 pounds (3.6 to 5 kg). It's surface area is about 18-22 square feet (1.7 to 2 sq. m), which is the size of the floor in a one-person tent.[18]
The longest bone in an adult human is the thighbone, measuring about 18 inches (46 cm). The shortest bone is in the ear and is just 0.1 inches (.25 cm) long, which is shorter than a grain of rice.[17]
An adult who weighs 150 pounds has a skeleton that weighs about 21 pounds.[18]
An average person walks about 100,000 miles (160,934 km) in his or her lifetimes, which is like walking around the world four times at the equator.[18]
Interesting Human Digestion Fact
A person will eat approximately 35 tons of food in a lifetime
In a lifetime, a human body will process about 100,000 pounds of food.[18]
The fastest muscles in a human body are the ones that make the eyes blink. They can contract in less than one-hundredth of a second. In just one day, a person may blink their eyes over 11,500 times.[10]
The word "muscle" is from the Latin word musculus, or "little mouse." The Romans thought a flexing muscle looked like a mouse moving under the skin.[18]
Humans spend about five years of their lives eating.[17]
An adult's stomach can hold over two quarts (1.9 l) of food. That's enough to fill four large or eight small drinking glasses.[18]
The average human produces about three to eight ounces of feces a day.[18]
The average person has about 5 pounds of bacteria in his or her digestive system.[17]
In an adult human, blood circulates about 12,000 miles (19,000 km) a day. This is like traveling from east to west across the widest part of the Pacific Ocean.[18]
A human heart beats over 3 billion times during an average human lifespan.[10]
A disorder of the inner ear causes every sound within the body to be amplified, including eye movements
Some people can hear their eyeballs moving around in their head.[3]
The word "lung" is from a German word meaning "light"; together two adult human lungs weigh only 2.5 pounds (11.1kg).[18]
If you spread out an adult human's brain, it would be about the size of a pillowcase.[18]
Adult humans spend about 33% of their lives asleep. A python spends about 75% of their life, and a dog spends about 44%.[18]
A human eye can distinguish between approximately 10 million different colors.[18]
The space between the eyebrows is called the "glabella," which is derived from the Latin word glabellus, meaning smooth.[9]
"Rubatosis" is the unsettling awareness of your own heartbeat.[7]
A person takes about 23,040 breaths a day, or about 672,768,000 breaths in a lifetime.[8]
Like Wolverine, the liver is the only organ that can completely regenerate. As little as 25% of the original liver mass can regenerate back to its full size.[16]
The word "blood" is from the PIE root "bhlo-", which means "that which bursts out." This root is also related to "bloma," (flower), which also "blossoms" outward.[2]
Dead skin comprises about a billion tons of dust in the earth's atmosphere.[13]
Your skin is its thickest on your feet (1.4mm) and thinnest on your eyelids (0.2mm).[13]
Fingers don't have muscles that facilitate movement. The tendons in our fingers are moved by the muscles of the forearm.[5]
The medical term for "bum crack" is the intergluteal cleft.[14]
AMAZING HUMAN BODY FACTS INFOGRAPHIC Human Body Infographic
The heaviest ever trichobezoar (human hairball) surgically removed from a human weighed 10 pounds (4.5 kg). It was found in the stomach of an 18-year-old woman in 2007 in Chicago, Illinois.[4]
The average human will shed 40 pounds of skin in their life
Here's an unbelievable fact: the only reason the acid in your stomach doesn't eat right through your body is because the stomach cells are renewed faster than they are destroyed.
Your stomach acid is even strong enough to dissolve razor blades
In order to taste something your mouth has to be able to dissolve it. Try drying off your tongue before eating your favorite candy...
Your brain uses up about 20% of all your body's oxygen and calories
Apart from identical twins every single person on Earth has a unique smell
A higher IQ is correlated with more dreams
You may not believe this but you are about 1 cm shorter at night. This is because the cartilage between your bones is compressed throughout the day
Here's another unbelievable fact, your feet have half a million sweat glands that produce over a pint of fluid everyday. Eew!
There are over 300 million capillaries in your lungs. If you stretched them out end to end they would reach across the United States
If you laid all of your blood vessels end to end they would stretch 60,000 miles, or around the world nearly two and a half times
Women blink twice as much as men
Men get hiccups twice as much as women
During your lifetime, you will produce enough saliva to fill two swimming pools.
If you enjoyed these unbelievable facts about the human body, be sure to check out these amazing facts about the human body you may not be aware of
After eating too much, your hearing is less sharp
By age sixty you will have lost half your taste buds
Babies can only see black and white when they are born
Your cornea is the only part of your body without a blood supply. It gets its oxygen directly from the air
You knew that 75% of your body is water, but did you know that 80% of your brain is water?
The average lifespan of a human hair is 3-7 years
Aside from being flammable, human hair is exceedingly difficult to destroy even with strong acids
The human body may appear fragile but it's possible to survive even with the removal of the stomach, the spleen, 75 percent of the liver, 80 percent of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area.
A full bladder is roughly the size of a softball
Your teeth start growing 6 months before you are born
Most babies are born with blue eyes. Exposure to ultraviolet light (the sun) and melanin are what eventually bring out their true color
Our blood vessels are 100,000 miles long and we breathe 50,000 times in a day. Shocked? So were we. Our body is full of surprises as it can do incredible stuff. We share with you some such interesting and unknown facts about our bodies.
​Strongest muscle in your body2/19
​Strongest muscle in your body
If you define strength as the ability to exert the most pressure, then the strongest muscle in the human body is the masseter muscle. Masseter muscle is the thick cheek muscle near the back of your jaw that opens and closes your mouth when you chew.
A feeling of thirst occurs when water loss is equal to 1 per cent of your body weight. The loss of more than 5 per cent can cause fainting, and more than 10 per cent can cause death from dehydration.
​How long are our blood vessels?4/19
​How long are our blood vessels?
Blood vessels of an average child would stretch over 60,000 miles and that of an adult would be 100,000 miles long.
​Do you forget your dream?5/19
Yes, it's not only you but everyone who forget 90 percent of their dreams. Human sleep occurs in several cycles during the night, each cycle consisting of 5 stages of sleep. The first 4 stages of sleep are of varying depths ranging from light sleep to very deep sleep. All these stages put together are referred to as non-REM sleep (or slow-wave sleep). The last stage of sleep is paradoxical in the sense that there is an increased activity of the brain (almost akin to the awaken state), and is associated with roving eye movements – hence called REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. Dreams typically occur during REM sleep.
Characteristically, the dreams experienced during sleep are not remembered after waking up.
​Man or woman: whose heart beats faster?6/19
​Man or woman: whose heart beats faster?
A Canadian study reveals woman's heart beats faster than man. The same study says women have a circadian rhythm, which runs between 1.7 and 2.3 hours ahead of their male partners.
​When does a child acquire fingerprint?7/19
​When does a child acquire fingerprint?
Children acquire fingerprint much before when they are born, that means in their mother's womb. Children get the fingerprints when they are 6 months old in the embryo, says a study conducted at University of California.
​How many cells die every second in human body?8/19
​How many cells die every second in human body?
Cells are always created and destroyed in the human body. About 300 million cells die every minute in our bodies. To be precise 50,000 cells in your body died and were replaced by new ones while you were reading this sentence.
​How fast do nerves send signals to and from the brain?9/19
​How fast do nerves send signals to and from the brain?
Messages from the brain can travel at speeds up to 268 miles/hour.
​New born babies can swallow and breathe at the same time10/19
​New born babies can swallow and breathe at the same time
This is known as suck-swallow-breathe, and is a skill that may take time to learn for some babies. At birth, the epiglottis and soft palate touch during quiet respiration with the mouth closed. During breastfeeding, the larynx elevates which allows the epiglottis to interlock with the soft palate. This allows the new-born to breathe and swallow at the same time - something the adult human cannot do.
​Memory capacity of a human brain11/19
​Memory capacity of a human brain
Paul Reber, professor of psychology at Northwestern University, tells that the brain's storage capacity is somewhere close to around 2.5 petabytes (or a million gigabytes).
​Part of body which has no blood supply12/19
​Part of body which has no blood supply
The cornea is the only organ in the entire human body that has no blood supply. It gets oxygen directly from the air. Amazingly, the cornea is also the fastest healing tissue in the human body, as a result, most corneal abrasions heal within 24-36 hours.
​Which body part cannot heal itself?13/19
​Which body part cannot heal itself?
Teeth, unlike other body parts, cannot heal itself once they're damaged. When the tooth erodes, there aren't any living cells around to swoop in and heal the tooth.
How long can human hair grow?14/19
Human hair grows at a speed of 1/2 inch per month and strangely it grows faster during summer and when you are asleep. If allowed to grow for their whole lifetime, the length of someone's hair would be about 725 kilometres.
Fastest way to lose calorie15/19
Banging head against the wall makes you lose maximum number of calories. It makes you lose 150 calories. Picture Courtesy: Flickr)
Total surface area of lungs may vary from 50 to 75 square meter, which is equal the surface area of a tennis court.
How many times do we breathe in a day?17/19
How many times do we breathe in a day?
Children tend to have fast breathing rates and breathe 30-60 times per minute. Toddlers might breathe 20-30 times per minute. Older children and adults, when resting, usually breathe about 12-20 times per minute. Over the course of a day, that adds up to 17,000 - 30,000 breaths per day or more.
The average breathing rates quite possibly may be 50,000 times or more per day if you're active.
Smallest and largest cell in human body18/19
Smallest and largest cell in human body
The largest cell in a human body is the female eggs and the smallest cells is male sperm.
From head to tail, human sperm cells measure about 50 micrometres (0.05 millimetre or roughly 0.002 inches).A human egg is about 30 times bigger - large enough to be seen with the naked eye.
Would a person die quicker with lack of hunger or sleep?19/19
Would a person die quicker with lack of hunger or sleep?
A person would die quicker from total lack of sleep than from hunger. Death would occur after 11 days without sleep, whereas from hunger it would take several weeks.
The heart is the hardest working muscle in the body. Every day, it creates enough energy to drive a semi-truck over 18 miles (30 kilometers). Over a lifetime, that's equivalent to driving to the moon and back.
The brain is 60 percent fat, but it still works hard. At any given time, your brain can generate up to 25 watts of power – that's enough to power a light bulb.
Skin is the human body's largest organ and is constantly renewing itself. Your skin sheds 50,000 cells every minute. Over a lifetime, that piles up to 40 pounds (18.1 kilograms) of skin.
Your brain is always working, and it is actually more active while you're sleeping. Scientists say the average person has roughly 70,000 thoughts each day.
You're born with more than 300 bones, but by the time you're an adult, you have just 206. This is because some of the bones fuse together.
Babies in the womb grow 8,000 new brain cells every second. Newborn babies can recognize their mother's face after just a few hours.
Scientists have discovered that the visual cortex of blind people can rewire itself to respond to stimuli received through touch and hearing, helping them to "see" by touch and sound.
The brain itself doesn't have any pain receptors, so it doesn't feel anything. That is why surgeons can perform open brain procedures on patients while they are awake.
During an average lifetime, the heart will pump nearly 1.5 million barrels of blood. A pumping human heart can squirt blood 10 yards (9.1 meters).
The typical human sneeze travels at just under 40 mph (64 kph). That's the same speed as a running tiger!
If your arteries, veins and capillaries were laid out end to end, they would measure 62,137 miles (100,000 kilometers). That's nearly enough to stretch two and a half times around the planet!
Your hair grows nearly one-quarter of an inch (6 millimeters) every four weeks and keeps on growing for up to six years. The hair then falls out, and another grows in its place.
Smell is the oldest of all the senses - before sight, hearing or touch, creatures evolved to respond to chemicals around them. Your brain can remember over 50,000 different scents.
The human brain is the most sophisticated thing in the known universe. Humans have more brain cells at the age of two than at any other point in their lives, but it takes nearly 20 years for the brain to mature.
There is enough iron in a body to make a metal nail measuring up to three inches (7.6 centimeters) long. 
If the human eye were a digital camera, it would have 576 megapixels. An eye can distinguish about 10 million different colors. 
In a lifetime, a person drinks 20,000 (75,000 liters) gallons of water. 
An average person produces about 1.8 pints (one liter) of saliva a day or 25,000 quarts (23,658 liters) of saliva in a lifetime. This is enough to fill two swimming pools. 
Did you know that one's ears and nose never stop growing? 
If uncoiled, the DNA in all the cells from the human body would stretch up to 10 billion miles. That's the distance from Earth to Pluto and back or 6,000 trips from Earth to the moon.
Your brain's long-term memory, which develops until the age of 40, can hold as many as 1 quadrillion (1 million billion) separate bits of information in a lifetime. 
The pulse of your heartbeat changes according to the music you listen to. 
Just like fingerprints, every person has a unique tongue print. 
Your mouth contains around 10,000 taste buds, most of which are located on and around the tiny bumps on your tongue. However, the sense of smell is necessary for taste, too 
Did you know the color of the human bones are actually range from beige to light brown? The bones you see in museums are white in color because they have been boiled and cleaned. 
Since a human heart has its own electrical impulse, it can continue beating for a period of time even if it is separated from the body. 
Earwax production is necessary for good ear health.
The inner ear is the main organ of balance.
A human ear contains about 24,000 fibers in it.
It only takes 7 pounds of pressure to rip your ear off.
The human ear can distinguish between hundreds of thousands of different sounds.
The human ears can hear in the frequency of 1,000 to 50,000 hertz.
Your ears never stop hearing, even when you sleep. Your brain just ignores incoming sounds.
Tiny hair cells in your inner ear are what translates sound waves to electricity to send to the brain.
Your ears are responsible for the equilibrium and balance of the body - the inner ear has direct connection with the brain.
The inner ear is no larger than a pencil eraser in circumference.
The middle ear is composed of three small bones, and one among them, the stapes, is the smallest bone in the human body.
The wax present inside the ear is made up of oil and sweat.
Children have more sensitive ears than adults.
The ears never stop growing through lifetime.
Your ears secrete more ear wax when you are afraid than when you aren't.
Sound that is above 130 decibels can cause pain to our ears.
After eating too much, your hearing is less sharp.
Human Nose and Smelling Facts:
Our nose is our personal air-conditioning system: it warms cold air, cools hot air and filters impurities.
Your nose can remember 50,000 different scents.
The nerve cells present in the nose, allows us to smell and regenerates through out ones life.
We breathe 13 pints of air every minute.
Your eyes are always the same size from birth but your nose and ears never stop growing.
Children have better sense of smell than adults.
You breathe in about 7 quarts of air every minute.
Women have better sense of smell than men.
You have no sense of smell when you're sleeping.
You can only smell 1/20th as well as a dog.
The human sense of smell has the ability to identify the chemical smell of an object in one part per trillion of air.
If human sense of smell is affected, sense of taste is also affected as the brain interprets signals from the nose and tongue.
Everyone has a completely unique smell (except for twins).
You burn more calories while sleeping than you do when watching television.
Sleeping less than 7 hours each night reduces your life expectancy.
The colder the room you sleep in, the better the chances are that you'll have a bad dream.
Babies start dreaming even before they're born.
The three things pregnant women dream most of during their first trimester are frogs, worms and potted plants.
Scientists say the higher your I.Q. the more you dream.
You can go without eating for weeks without succumbing, but eleven days is tops for going without sleep.
In a year on an average person sleeps for 122 days out of 365 days.
When we go to sleep and enter REM (Rapid Eye Movement),our bodies become completely paralyzed as areas of the brain that control movement are de-activated.
An average person has over 1,460 dreams a year which is about 4 dreams every night.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
By 60 years of age, 60% of men and 40% of women will snore.
The human body releases growth hormones during sleep.
Your teeth start growing 6 months before you are born.
The Romans used to clean and whiten their teeth with urine.
Brushing your teeth regularly has been shown to prevent heart disease.
The tooth is the only part of the human body that cannot heal and repair by its own.
Enamel, found on our teeth, is the hardest substance in the human body.
Human teeth are almost as hard as rocks.
Plaque begins to form 6 hours after brushing our teeth.
Tooth decay has led to 60 percent of adult Americans losing their upper right, middle molar.
An average adult male brain weighs about 1375 grams.
A neglected child brain can be substantially smaller than that of a healthy child.
A condition called synesthesia can cause senses to overlap. In other words, some people can taste words or hear colors.
The right side of the human brain is responsible for self-recognition.
Any damage to brain cells cannot be repaired completely.
The base of the spinal cord has a cluster of nerves, which are most sensitive.
The brain continues to send out electric wave signals until approximately 37 hours after death.
The brain is much more active at night than during the day.
The brain itself cannot feel pain.
The brain operates on the same amount of power as 10-watt light bulb. Your brain generates as much energy as a small light bulb even when you're sleeping.
As we get older, the brain loses almost one gram per year.
Only four percent of the brains cells work and the remaining cells are kept in reserve.
Our Brain has over 100 billion nerve cells.
The adult human brain is about 2% of total body weight.
Men listen with the left side of the brain and women use both sides of the brain.
The average human brain weighs about 3 pounds.
The human brain can read up to 1,000 words per minute.
The human brain cell can hold 5 times as much information as the Encyclopedia Britannica. Or any other encyclopedia for that matter.
The Human brain constitutes 60% of white matter and 40% of grey matter.
The human brain is capable of creating more ideas equivalent to that of the atoms of the universe.
The human brain is made up of more than 10 billion nerve cells and over 50 billion other cells and weighs less than three pounds.
The Human brain is the most powerful computer which has the processing speed of 3000+ Ghz
The human brain is very soft like butter.
The Human brain stops growing at the age of 18.
The human Brain uses 20% of our body energy and makes up only 2% of our body weight.
If you spread it out, your brain would be about the size of a pillowcase.
When we touch something, we send a message to our brain at 124 mph.
Cold weather improves human memory and concentration.
The width of an average human brain is 140 mm.
The total surface area of the human brain is about 25,000 square cms.
The weight of human cerebellum is 150g.
In a lifetime, your brain's long-term memory can hold as many as 1 quadrillion (1 million billion) separate bits of information.
Information travels at different speeds within different types of neurons.
It is estimated that there are over 1, 000,000,000,000,000 connections in the human brain.
Nerve impulses to and from the brain travel as fast as 170 miles per hour.
Neurons continue to grow throughout human life.
On an average the weight of an adult female brain is about 1275 grams.
On an average, 100,000 to 1,000,000 chemical reactions takes place in our brain.
The average human head weighs about 10 pounds.
The average length of the human brain is about 167 mm and its average height is 93mm.
The left side of human brain controls the right side of the body and the right side of the brain controls the left side of the body.
The Nervous system transmits messages to the brain at the speed of 180 miles per hour.
When in love, the brain releases the same cocktail of neurotransmitters and hormones that are released by amphetamines, leading to increased heart rate, loss of appetite and sleep, and intense feelings of excitement.
Your brain uses about 20% of your oxygen and caloric intake.
Labeled diagram of the human skeleton.
Human Bones, Joints and Muscles Facts:
Your bones are composed of 31% water.
Your bones, pound for pound, are 4 times stronger than concrete.
A muscle called the diaphragm controls the human breathing process.
Bone is stronger than some steel.
Bones make up only 14% of our weight.
At birth we have over 300 bones. As we grow up, some of the bones begin to fuse together as a result an adult has only 206 bones.
The muscles of our body constitute 40% of our body weight.
The muscles of the eye move more than 100,000 times a day.
The muscles that control your eyes contract about 100,000 times a day (that's the equivalent of giving your legs a workout by walking 50 miles).
If you remove the minerals from a bone by soaking it overnight in a six percent solution of hydrochloric acid, it will become so soft, you could tie it in a knot.
There are 22 bones in the human skull.
The hardest bone in the human body is the jawbone.
The human skeleton renews once in every three months.
The human body consists of over 600 muscles.
Human bone is as strong as steel but 50 times lighter.
Human fingers stretch and bend about 25 million times in a normal lifetime.
Human speech is produced by the interaction of 72 muscles.
Humans have more facial muscles than any other animal on earth - 22 on each side of the face.
It takes 17 muscles to smile and 43 to frown.
It takes twice as long to lose new muscle if you stop working out than it did to gain it.
Muscle tissue is three times more efficient at burning calories than fat.
One person in 20 has an extra rib, and they are most often men.
Our Muscles often work in pairs so that they can pull in different or opposite directions.
The feet account for one quarter of all the human body's bones.
The femur/thigh bone is the longest bone in our body, it is about a quarter of ones height.
The heart muscles will stop working only when we die.
The human body has 230 movable and semi-movable joints.
The human body has less muscles in it than a caterpillar.
The Hyoid bone, in your throat is the only bone in your body which not attached to other bones.
The leg bone is the fastest growing bone in the human body.
The length of your foot is the same as that of your forearm between your wrist and the inside of your elbow.
The longest muscle in the human body is sartorius, which is present in the hip region and it is commonly called as tailors muscle.
The only joint-less bone in the human body is the hyoid bone, which is present in the throat area.
The shoulder blade is connected to the body by means of 15 different muscles and it is not attached to a single bone.
The sound you hear when you crack your knuckles is actually the sound of nitrogen gas bubbles bursting.
The strongest muscles of the human body are masseters, which are present on either side of the mouth.
The thighbone is so strong that it withstands the axial load of about 1600-1800 kilos.
The tiniest muscle, the stapedius of the middle ear, is just one-fifth of an inch long.
The tips of your fingers have enough strength to support the weight of your whole body.
The tongue is the strongest muscle in the human body.
We exercise at least 36 muscles when we smile.
When you were born, you had 300 bones. Now you have 206, if you are an adult. The rest of the bones have not disappeared - they have merely fused together.
You sit on the biggest muscle in your body, the gluteus maximus a.k.a. the butt.
You use 200 muscles to take one step.
Your foot contains 25% of all the bones within your body.
Your ribs move about 5 million times a year, every time you breathe!
A fetus acquires fingerprints at the age of three months.
A baby is born without kneecaps. They appear between age 2 and 6.
A baby's head is one-quarter of it's total length, but by age 25 will only be one-eighth of its total length.
A New born baby loses about half of its nerve cells before it is born.
A newborn baby has more than 26 billion cells.
A newborn babys brain grows almost 3 times as fast during the first year of life.
At just 12 weeks the human fetus can scowl and squint.
Babies are always born with blue eyes.
Babies are born with 300 bones, but by adulthood the number is reduced to 206.
Babies are born with pink lungs but they darken in color as we breathe in polluted air.
Babies are color blind when they are born, so they only see black and white.
Babies are, pound for pound, stronger than an ox.
Babies crawl an average of 200 Meters a day.
Babies recognize sounds while in mothers womb.
Before their first birthday, average babies will have dribbled 255 pints of saliva
By the time babies are two years old, they will have crawled 93 miles.
In the womb, the baby's body is covered by a thin layer of hair but as soon as the baby is born it disappears.
It takes time for a newborn baby to learn to turn the pictures right side up, as it sees the world upside down in the beginning.
Male baby foreskin is often used as a skin graft for burn victims.
Most babies are born with blue eyes; exposure to UV light brings out their true color.
One in every 1000 babies is born with a tooth.
Newborns will cry out without tears for the first three to six weeks.
On average, the number of connections in the brain increases from 50 trillion to 1 quadrillion in a newborn during his first month of life.
A single human sperm contains the 37.5mb of male DNA required to create a human child. That means an average ejaculation sees the transfer of 1,500 terabytes of information.
Sperm containing the XY chromosomes to become a male can swim faster but not for as long as the female xx chromosomes.
During the first six weeks of life, there is no difference between the male and female embryo.
The ovaries of a female contain about 600,000 immature eggs at birth.
Every human spent about half an hour as a single cell
Human fetuses react to loud rock music by kicking.
Ovaries contain over 500,000 eggs, but only about 400 get the opportunity to create life.
Pregnancy in women lasts on average of about 270 days from the time of conception till birth.
The average life span of a sperm is about 36 hours.
The female body is capable of giving birth to 35 children in one lifetime.
The female egg cell is the largest cell in the human body. It is about 175 000 times heavier than the smallest cell, the male sperm cell.
The formation of your egg, and the half of your DNA that came from your mother, could be considered the very first moment of your existence. It happened before your mother was born. If your mother was 30 when she had you, then on your 18th birthday you were arguably over 48 years old.
The largest cell in the human body is the female egg and the smallest is the male sperm.
Your stomach manufactures a new lining every three days to avoid digesting itself.
1 in 10,000 people have their internal organs reversed or "mirrored" from their normal positions.
A human lung contains about 700 million alveoli.
The human gut contains about 1kg (2.2 lbs) of bacteria.
The human Liver consists of 100,000 tiny clusters called lobules.
The human liver performs 500 different functions.
The largest internal organ is the small intestine.
Each lung contains 300-350 million respiratory units called alveoli.
When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.
Why doesn't your stomach digest itself? That's because your stomach cells are created faster than they can be destroyed.
You could remove a large part of your internal organs and survive.
You get a new stomach lining every three to four days.
For every 24 hours, in a healthy adult, more than a gallon of water containing over an ounce of salt is absorbed from the intestine.
Human kidneys have about 1 million nephrons that filters out liquids and wastes.
If the lining of mucus were to disappear from your stomach, your stomach would digest itself.
If your stomach acid got onto your skin it would burn a hole in it.
In a human body, the small intestine is 21 feet and the large intestine is 6 feet long.
Liver cells take several years to replace themselves.
Liver is the only organ of the body, which regenerates itself completely even after being removed completely.
Oesophagus/or food pipe, which is the passage for the food we eat to the stomach, is approximately 25 cm long.
On an average 1.7 liters of saliva produces each day.
On average, the human stomach holds about 2 liters of contents.
Our lungs inhale over two million liters of air every day, without even thinking.
The food will get in to the stomach even if one stands on their head.
The gastric acid in your stomach is so powerful that it is able to eat away an iron table in about 5 minutes.
The gastrointestinal tract is a 30-foot (9 m) tube running from your mouth to your anus.
The human stomach contains about 35 million small digestive glands.
The human tongue has 10,000 taste buds.
The liver is the largest and heaviest internal organ of the body and weighs about 1.6 kilos.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to that of a tennis court.
The surface of human tongue is covered with 100 of tiny structures called papillae.
There are more than 300,000,000 capillaries in your lungs and if they were stretched out tip to tip they would reach approximately the distance between Atlanta and LA.
Your left lung is smaller than your right lung to make room for your heart.
A childs ability to learn can increase or decrease by 25% or more depending on if the child grows up in a stimulating environment.
Children grow faster in the springtime.
Children lose an average of 90 hairs per day, which increases to 120 by old age.
Reading aloud to children helps to stimulate brain development.
Body fat is not particularly hazardous to health until the level of total body fat reaches 35% for men and 40% for women.
Eating Breakfast helps to burn 5 to 20% of calories throughout the day.
An average human body contains enough amount of fat to make seven bars of soap.
Central obesity or apple shape of the body and insulin resistance is the main reason for diabetes increase in Indians
Women burn fat more slowly than men, by a rate of about 50 calories a day.
Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour.
During your lifetime, you'll eat about 60,000 pounds of food, that's the weight of about 6 elephants!
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
Exercise and diet can either reduce or delay the incidence of diabetes by over 50%.
Fidgeting can burn about 350 calories a day.
In the average lifetime, we spend five years eating and we consume around 7,000 times our own weight in food.
It takes 5 - 30 seconds to chew food. Swallowing the food takes about 10 seconds.
Most westerners consume 50 tons of food and 50,000 liters of liquid in their lifetime.
The human body takes 6 hours to digest a high fat meal and it takes 2 hours for a carbohydrate meal.
80 head hairs are likely to fall every day.
A hair grows by 0.3 to 0.5 mm per day, 1 to 1.5 cm per month and 12 to 15 cm per year.
Human hair is made up of a body protein called keratin and it grows out of an opening of the skin called Follicle.
Human hair is virtually indestructible.
In a lifetime, a human being will grow around six feet of nose hair.
A single hair has the ability to support up to 100 grams of weight and the whole head of hair has the ability to support up to 12 tons of weight.
Beards are the fastest growing hairs on the human body. If the average man never trimmed his beard, it would grow to nearly 30 feet long in his lifetime.
Women's hair is about half the diameter of men's hair.
Straight hair lies flat because it is round and grows out of round follicles.
Redheads have the least dense hair, averaging about 86,000 follicles.
In 2008 scientists discovered a new species of bacteria that lives in hairspray.
One human hair can support 3.5 ounces.
There are as many hairs per square inch on your body as a chimpanzee.
Curly hair comes out of an oval follicle.
On an average a persons head has 100,000 to 150,000 hairs.
On an average it takes about 13 days for a grey hair to grow.
On an average the human scalp has about 100,000 hairs.
On an average, in an adult scalp 35m of hair fiber is produced every day.
Every day the average person loses 60-100 strands of hair.
Facial hair grows faster than any other hair on the body.
Frequent washing of hair does not cause hair loss.
Hair is the fastest growing tissue in the body, the next being bone marrow.
Healthy human hair emits sound.
Male hairs are denser and grow faster than females.
The average human head has 100,000 hair follicles, each of which is capable of producing 20 individual hairs during a person's lifetime. Blonds average 146,000 follicles. People with black hair tend to have about 110,000 follicles, while those with brown hair are right on
The average person has about 100 000 scalp hairs.
The color of our hair is also determined by the melanin, a pigment present in the human body.
The eyelashes shed by a human in their entire life is oabout 30 Metres of length.
The lifespan of a human hair is 3 to 7 years on average.
The maximum length of hair can be 70 to 90 cms.
The pigment of human hair is produced in the shaft of hair beneath the skin.
There is no scientific evidence that shaving or waxing will make your hair come back thicker.
You must lose over 50% of your scalp hairs before it is apparent to anyone.
A square inch of skin consists of 1300 nerve cells.
Your skin is the largest organ in your body; if an adult male's skin were to be stretched out, it would cover 20 square feet.
Most of the dust underneath your bed is actually your own dead skin.
About 32 million bacteria call every inch of your skin home.
Human skin cells multiply every second to replace the worn ones.
Human skin contains 45 miles of nerves.
Humans have shed around 40 pounds of skin in their lifetime.
Skin can now be artificially grown. One amazing result of this is that the skin from one hand could be grown into enough to cover six football pitches.
Depending on the area of the human body, the thickness of the skin varies from 1/2 to 6 mm.
In one square inch of skin there are 4 yards of nerve fibers.
In one square inch of skin, there are 3 million cells.
Each person sheds 22 kilograms of skin in his or her lifetime.
The weight of skin in a human adult is 8 to 10 pounds.
Every minute 30,000 to 40,000 dead skin cells fall from our body.
Every square inch of skin on the human body has about 32 million bacteria on it, fortunately, the vast majority of them are harmless.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour - about 1.5 pounds a year. By 70 years of age, an average person will have lost 105 pounds of skin.
Humans shed and regrow outer skin cells about every 27 days.
Melanin, a pigment present in the skin is responsible for the color of the skin in a person.
One square inch of human skin contains 625 sweat glands.
Over the course of your lifetime, you'll shed about 40lbs of skin.
People with dark color skin wrinkle later than people having light color skins.
Human skin sheds and re-grows after every 27 days.
Amazing Facts About Blood and the Heart:
The aorta, the largest artery in the body, is almost the diameter of a garden hose.
Capillaries are so small that it takes ten of them to equal the thickness of a human hair.
A red blood cell can circumnavigate your body in under 20 seconds.
A drop of blood contains 250 million cells.
A healthy liver processes 720 liters of blood per day.
A heartbeat is the sound produced by the closure of valves of the heart when the blood is pushed through its chamber.
A simple, moderately severe sunburn damages the blood vessels extensively.
A square inch of skin consists of three yards of blood vessel.
An adult human body contains five to six quarts of blood and an infant has about one quart of blood.
All the blood in our body passes 400 times through each kidney per day.
Arterial blood contains a lot of oxygen and nutrients for the body whereas venous blood contains low oxygen level and nutrients.
Aspirin and alcohol can be absorbed directly into the bloodstream through the stomach lining.
Blood is 6 times thicker than water.
Every 60 seconds, your red blood cells do a complete circuit of your body.
Every day 440 Gallons of blood flows through each kidney.
Except the heart and lungs, all other parts of the body receive their blood supply from the largest artery of the body, the aorta.
For every pound of fat gained, you add seven miles of new blood vessels.
Human blood is a make up of Red Blood Cells carrying oxygen, White Blood Cells that fight disease, Platelets that help the blood to clot and a liquid called plasma.
Human blood is colorless. It is the hemoglobin; a pigment present in the red blood cells is responsible for the red color of the blood.
In 24 hours, the blood in the body travels a total of 12,000 miles - that's four times the width of North America.
In a lifetime, the human kidneys clean over 1 million gallons of blood.
It takes about 20 seconds for a red blood cell to circle the whole body.
In each kidney, there are 1 million filters that clean around 1.3 liters of blood every minute and push out close to 1.5 liters of urine every day.
On an average an adults heart pumps about 4,000 gallons of blood each day.
In one square inch of our hand we have nine feet of blood vessels, 600 pain sensors, 9000 nerve endings, 36 heat sensors and 75 pressure sensors.
Our blood is on a 60,000-mile journey per day.
Platelets, which are one of the constituents of the blood are produced at the rate of one hundred billion per day.
Red Blood Cells are the only cells in the body that do not have a nucleus.
Red Blood Cells comprise about 40% of blood volume.
Red blood cells are about seven micrometer in diameter.
Red Blood Cells lasts only for about 4 months before they wear out.
The heart pumps about 1 million barrels of blood during an average lifetime - that's enough to fill 2 oil super tankers!
The human body contains 30 000 billion red blood cells.
The human body is estimated to have 60,000 miles of blood vessels.
The human body makes 2.5 million Red Blood Cells every second or about 200 billion Red Blood Cells every day.
The human heart beats 30 million times a year.
The human heart continues to beat for 5 seconds even after it is taken out of the body.
The human heart creates enough pressure when it pumps blood, that it could squirt blood 30 feet.
The human heart is not on the left-hand side of the body; it's in the middle.
The human heart pumps 6,000 liters of blood daily through a man lifetime.
The kidneys filter your blood up to 300 times per day.
The total length of human blood vessels could circle the globe 2 1/2 times.
The liquid inside young coconuts can be used as a substitute for blood plasma.
The most common blood type in the world is Type O.
The Pulmonary vein is the only vein in the human body that carries oxygenated blood while all the other veins of the body carry de-oxygenated blood.
There are 2.5 trillion (give or take) of red blood cells in your body at any moment.
There are about 30 - 40 billion white blood cells present in our body to fight against infective and foreign organisms.
There are approximately 96,000 km of blood vessels in the human body.
You need to consume a quart of water each day for four months to equate to the amount of blood your heart pumps in one hour.
Your body has about 5.6 liters (6 quarts) of blood. This 5.6 liters of blood circulates through the body three times every minute.
Your brain uses 20% of the oxygen that enters your bloodstream.
Your heart will pump nearly 1.5 million barrels of blood during your lifetime, enough to fill 200 train tank cars.
The left side of the human heart is much thicker and stronger than the right side.
Every day, your heart creates enough energy to drive a truck for 20 miles.
Hold out your hand and make a fist. If you are a kid, the size of your heart is same as the size of your fist and if you are an adult it is about the same size as twice as your fist.
Human lips have a reddish color because of the great concentration of tiny capillaries just below the skin.
Monday is the day of the week when the risk of heart attack is greatest.
Normal human pulse rate is around 70 heartbeats per minute.
Our heart beats around 100,00 times every day or about 30 million times in a year.
We give birth to over 200 billion red cells every day.
Your heart beats 100,000 times a day.
Your heartbeat changes and mimics the music you listen to.
The human eye cannot perceive a motionless image.
Humans are the only animals to produce emotional tears.
The human eye contains five to seven million receptors for color perception.
The human eye contains structures called Rods and cones. Rods register the shapes of images and respond to low levels of light and Cones responds to bright lights and registers the color of images.
The human eye has 110-130 million receptors to perceive light.
The Human eye is the only multi-focus lens in the world which can adjust in 2 milliseconds.
The human eyeball is 24.5 mm long.
Women blink nearly twice as much as men.
Human eyes are the fastest moving body part.
There are around 1,200,000 optic fibers in the human eye.
There are 137 million light sensitive cells in the eye's retina and the fluid that fills the eye is changed 15 times a day.
When we see an image, the human eye captures the inverted image of it. It is the brains interpretation that makes us to see the upside down captured image in to a normal erect image.
You can see ultraviolet light, the ability is just filtered out by the eye's lens.
The eyeball of a human weighs approximately 28 grams.
About one third of the human race has 20-20 vision.
When you look at an object, the image of that object appears upside down on your retina. However, your brain automatically corrects for this, allowing you to perceive the object the right side up.
Every hour, the human eye can process 36,000 bits of information.
Eyes are the only part of the human body that functions at 100 percent ability at any movement.
Humans are extremely visual; 90% of the information we gather from our surroundings is from our eyesight.
If the human eye was a digital camera it would have 576 megapixels.
If you blink one eye you move over 200 muscles.
If you could save all the times your eyes blink in one life time and use them all at once you would see blackness for 1.2 years!
In the middle of the day, our eyesight will be sharper.
It is believed that the main purpose of eyebrows is to keep sweat out of the eyes.
Men can read smaller print than women; women can hear better.
Most people blink about 25 times per minute.
Most people have three types of color receptors to see color vision, while some women have four or even five of these receptors and can see a wider range of colors.
Our eyes can distinguish up to ten million color surfaces and take in more information than the largest telescope known to man.
Our eyes never grow, and our nose and ears never stop growing.
People with blue eyes have a higher alcohol tolerance.
The eyes have the fastest reacting muscle in the whole body. It contracts in 1/100th of a second.
The Iris is the part of the eye that determines the color of the eye.
The lens of the human eye is composed of 65% water and 3% protein.
We shut our eyes for 0.3 seconds, when we blink.
Your eyeballs are 3 1/2 percent salt.
Blind people understand spoken words quicker than sighted people.
Human Finger and Toenail Facts:
After death, the body starts to dry out creating an illusion that the nails and hairs are growing even after death.
Nails and corneas are the only two tissues in the body that do not receive oxygen from blood.
The length of the finger indicates how fast the nail grows. The nail of the middle finger grows faster than others.
Fingernails contain keratin and they seem to be strongest component in the human body.
Fingernails grow fastest on the hand that you write with and on the longest fingers. On average, nails grow about one-tenth of an inch each month.
Fingernails grow nearly 4 times faster than toenails.
It can take your finger and toenails 1/2 a year to grow an entirely new nail (from base to tip).
Nails and hair do not continue to grow after we die.
Nails of toes or fingers take about 6 months to grow from base to tip.
The fastest growing nail is on the middle finger.
The thumbnail grows the slowest; the middle nail grows the fastest.
The white part of our fingernail is called as Lunula.
Miscellaneous Human Body Facts:
The average person expels flatulence 14 times each day.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
It's nearly impossible to tickle yourself.
Laughing and coughing creates more pressure on the spine than walking or standing.
Like fingerprints, every person has a unique tongue print.
A pair of feet have 500,000 sweat glands and can produce more than a pint of sweat a day.
A person can expect to breathe in about 45 pounds of dust over his/her lifetime.
A person can live without food for about a month, but only a week without water.
A person growth like being tall or short is not determined only by the genes. Growth hormone also is responsible for it.
10% of human dry weight comes from bacteria.
10% of men and 8% of women are left-handed.
Your body has enough iron in it to make a nail 3 inches long.
Your body produces enough heat in only thirty minutes to boil a half-gallon of water.
A hard working adult sweats up to 4 gallons per day.
A full bladder is roughly the size of a soft ball.
A human being can look forward to having sex an average of 2,580 times with five different partners.
A human body contains about 200,000 temperature detectors.
A human body has 500,000 touch detectors.
A human head remains conscious for about 15 to 20 seconds after it is been decapitated.
Diabetes causes 6 deaths every minute and 1 in 20 deaths in the world. Every year 3.2 million people in the world die from diabetes or related causes.
In an average person, it takes 8 seconds for food to travel down the food pipe, 3-5 hours in the small intestine and 3-4 days in the large intestine.
In just 30 minutes, your body can produce enough heat to boil half a gallon of water.
A sneeze generates a wind of 166 km/hr (100 mi/hr), and a cough moves out at 100 kmh (60 mi/hr).
A womens heart beats faster than a mens.
About 10,000 human cells can fit on the head of a pin
About 80% of ultra-violet rays from the sun can get through cloud and cause sunburn even on cloudy days.
About 500 million sperm mature every day in a normal male adult.
Almost 90 to 95% of diabetes is of type 2 or maturity onset type; that affects people in their middle age. Type 1 or juvenile diabetes affects 70,000 children under the age of 15 years every year.
Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day.
An adult is made up of around 7,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 (7 octillion) atoms.
An average human drinks about 16,000 gallons of water in a lifetime.
An average person laughs about 15 times a day.
Approximately 75% of human waste is made of water.
Around 90% of the cells that make humans aren't human in origin. We're mostly fungi and bacteria.
Astronauts cannot burp in space. There is no gravity to separate liquid from gas in their stomachs.
Within three days of death, the enzymes that once digested your dinner begin to eat you.
Women are born better smellers than men and remain better smellers over life.
Your DNA includes the genes from at least eight retroviruses.
Only one person in two billion will live for more than 115 years of life.
The current cost of treating diabetes and its complications in the world is estimated at USD 215-375 billion.
The DNA helix measures 80 billionths of an inch wide.
The enzyme in the stomach that breaks down alcohol is produced less in men than women.
Borborygmi is the noise or sound which our stomach makes when we are hungry.
By the age of 60, most people will have lost about half their taste buds.
By the time a woman has reached her 60's, she will have released around 450 baby making eggs.
Even small noises cause the pupils of the eyes to dilate.
Every atom in your body is billions of years old. Hydrogen, the most common element in the universe and a major feature of your body, was produced in the big bang 13.7bn years ago.
Every day an adult body produces 300 billion new cells.
Sneezes regularly exceed 100 mph.
Sneezing too hard can cause a rib fracture while suppressing a sneeze can cause damage to the blood vessels of the head or neck.
Sometimes, when you have to pee, you can visibly see that your bladder is bigger.
Taste buds are present inside the mouth and also at the roof of the mouth.
Tears and mucus contain an enzyme (lysozyme) that breaks down the cell wall of many bacteria.
The human spinal cord is 45 cm long in men and 43 cm long in women.
The adrenal glands change size throughout life.
The amount of carbon in the human body is enough to fill about 9,000 'lead' pencils.
Seven out of ten people cross their left arm over their right.
Shivering is a way of trying to keep our body warm.
The width of your arm-span stretched out is the length of your whole body.
There are about 13,500,00 neurons in the human spinal cord.
There are around 100 receptors in each of our fingertips.
The average person is about a quarter of an inch taller at night.
The average person produces enough saliva in their lifetime to fill 2 swimming pools.
The cells of taste buds are constantly being renewed, roughly on every ten hours.
The cells of the heart and brain do not multiply through out their lifetime.
The chemical elements that make up your body are worth around US$160.
Crying alleviates stress and allows humans to decrease feelings of anger and sadness.
Diabetes in Asians is five times the rate of the white population
Diabetes is a silent epidemic and according to WHO there are 246 million people in the world living with diabetes. This is almost 6% of the world's adult population.
Diabetes is the number one cause of kidney failure in the world. Besides this every year it is responsible for 5% or 5 million blindness in adults and one million limb amputations.
Drinking coffee prevents Parkinson's disease.
The ashes of a cremated person average about 9 pounds.
The atoms that make up your body are mostly empty space, despite there being so many of them, without that space you would compress into a tiny volume.
Eighty percent of people infected with the Ebola virus, will die from this disease.
Every person has a unique tongue print.
Feet have 500,000 sweat glands and can produce more than a pint of sweat a day.
Food is either cooled or warmed to a suitable temperature in the mouth.
From the age of thirty, humans gradually begin to shrink in size.
Glabella is the space between your eyebrows.
Goose bumps on our skin are caused by pull of muscles attached to hair follicles and make the hair upright.
Guys are more likely than girls (by a ratio of 3-to-2) to have bad acne.
Hugging releases oxytocin, which helps to heal physical wounds, and makes someone trust you more.
Humans and dolphins are the only species that have sex for pleasure.
Humans are bioluminescent and glow in the dark. The light that we emit is 1,000 times weaker than our human eyes are able to pick up.
Humans are the best long distance runners on the planet. Better than any four-legged animal.
Humans are the only mammal that cannot swallow and breathe at the same time.
Humans are the only primates that don't have pigment in the palms of their hands.
Humans have 46 chromosomes, peas have 14 and crayfish have 200.
Humans have the ability to differentiate about 10,000 odors.
Humans share 50% of their DNA with bananas.
Identical twins have identical DNA but not identical fingerprints.
If Barbie were life-size, her measurements would be 39-23-33.
If saliva cannot dissolve something, you cannot taste it.
If uncoiled, the DNA in all the cells in your body would stretch 10 billion miles, from here to Pluto and back.
If you fart consistently for 6 years and 9 months, enough gas is produced to create the energy of an atomic bomb.
If you yelled for 8 years, 7 months and 6 days, you would have produced enough sound energy to heat one cup of coffee.
In order to taste something, our saliva needs to dissolve it (try drying off your tongue and tasting something).
In space, astronauts cannot cry, because there is no gravity, so the tears can't flow!
In your very own lifetime, you'll produce enough spit to fill two swimming pools.
India is the diabetes capital of the world. It is estimated that currently there are 40 million people with diabetes in India and by 2025 this number will swell to 70 million. This would mean every fifth diabetic in the world would be an Indian.
Half a liter of water per day is lost through breathing.
Inside your belly button are thousands of bacteria that form an ecosystem the size of an entire rainforest.
It is impossible to tickle ourselves.
Loneliness is physically painful.
Men produce about 10 million new sperm daily (approximately enough to repopulate the entire planet in 6 months).
More germs are transferred shaking hands than kissing.
Most people have lost fifty per cent of their taste buds by the time they reach the age of sixty.
On an average, a persons left hand does 56% of typing.
On an average, the human growth hormone, which is responsible for a person growth is produced at the rate of 500 microgram per day at the age of twenty, 200 microgram per day at the age of forty and 25 microgram per day at the age of eighty.
On average people fear spiders more than they do death.
On average, we speak about 5,000 words per day.
Over 90% of diseases are caused or complicated by stress.
People are the only animals in the world who cry tears.
People under 30 years of age take in double the amount of oxygen as people over 80 years of age.
Right-handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left-handed people do.
Sixty percent of the human body nerve ends in the forehead and the hands.
The highest recorded body temperature in a human being was a fever of 115.7 F (46.5 C).
The human body contains 30 amazing hormones, which regulates activities like sleep, body temperature, hunger, and managing stress in times of crisis and so on.
The human body has 4 million pain sensitive structures.
The human hand contains three main nerves, two major arteries and 27 different bones - more of the body is devoted to controlling the hands than any other part of the body.
The human head is one-quarter of our total length at birth but only one-eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
The life span of a taste bud is ten days.
The life span of an ovule is about 12 - 24 hours.
The longest time between two twins being born is 87 days.
The middle part of the back is the least sensitive part of our body.
The palms of the hands and soles of the feet contain more sweat glands than other parts of the body.
The reason honey is so easy to digest is that it's already been digested by a bee.
The sense of taste is the weakest of the five senses.
The soles of your feet contain more sweat glands and more pressure-sensitive nerve endings per square inch than any other part of your body.
The spinal cord, which controls over 10 billion nerve cells, is less than two feet in length and its diameter is same as that of the index finger.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
There are more than 100 types of cancers; any part of the body can be affected.
There is more bacteria in your mouth than the human population of the United States and Canada combined .
Three hundred million cells die in the human body every minute.
The threshold pain of women is 9 times stronger than men.
U.S. park ranger Roy C. Sullivan held the record for being struck by lightning the most times and surviving - 7 times between 1942 and 1977.
Vitamin C and E fights against Dementia.
Vitamin E protects the brain cells from damage caused by alcohol consumption.
We all have tiny mites living in our eyelashes.
We are about 1 cm taller in the morning than in the evening.
We are about 70 percent water.
We are more likely to catch cold from a person by shaking his hand than from his sneeze.
We have copper, zinc, cobalt, calcium, manganese, phosphates, nickel and silicon in our bodies.
We make around 1 to 1.6 liters of saliva a day.
We share 98.4% of our DNA with a chimp - and 70% with a slug.
When full, the human bladder can hold two pints of urine.
When put under the microscope, crying over grief, hope, or onions all produced a unique tear.
Yawning brings more oxygen to the lungs.
You are more likely to be killed by a champagne cork than by a poisonous spider.
You are taller in the morning than in the evening.
You have about half-a-million sweat glands that produce about a pint of sweat daily.
You'll be about 1cm shorter when you go to bed at night compared to when you wake up in the morning. Your cartilage in your spine slowly compresses throughout the day.
Your body contains enough iron to make a spike strong enough to hold your weight.
Your body gives off enough heat in 30 minutes to bring half a gallon of water to a boil.
Obscure-Facts-You-Never-Knew-About-Your-Own-Body
The average human gets around three billion heartbeats in their lifetime. That's all the more reason to care for your ticker. Plant-based diets filled with veggies, sipping tea, and practicing yoga are among some of the 15 smart ways to prevent heart disease.
You probably already heard that the human body is made up of mostly water (55 to 60 percent for adult women and men, respectively). What you might be surprised to find out is that fluid isn't just in your skin, muscles, and organs, but your skeleton, too. In fact, water makes up nearly one-third of your bone mass.
If you claim to be afraid of bacteria, better think again. A 2016 study found that a 154-pound man has about 38 trillion bacteria, which is roughly the same amount of human cells, the researchers say. What's more, the bacteria weigh nearly a half-pound in total.
There was a long-standing stat that a sneeze travels 100 mph, but newer research found it's not even close. Still, that achoo is rather impressive. A 2013 study in PLOS One found that a sneeze moves at the rate of about 10 mph. Still, cover your mouth and nose to safeguard others from germs—and read this if you're tempted to hold in a sneeze.
So this is why you sweat a lot
Pass the deodorant please: You have two to four million sweat glands all over your body, points out the International Hyperhidrosis Society. Most of these are the non-stinky kind located on the soles of your feet, your palms, and forehead and cheeks. Think you're the "sweaty" type? Here's why you may sweat more than other people.
You have more hair than you think
People are born with five million hair follicles, 100,000 of which are located on your scalp, notes the American Academy of Dermatology. And while many women might want long locks, hair grows faster in men than women.
The human body is mostly made up of four elements: oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen, accounting for 96.2 percent of you. (Calcium and phosphorus are the other big players.) It's amazing how those elements come together to help create a body that does truly impressive things each day, from fighting cancer to forming 20,000 thoughts. Here are some more random trivia facts you'll wish you'd always known.
You inhale and exhale without even thinking about it—to the tune of 17,280 to 23,040 breaths per day. And while it's an automatic habit, it can bring big benefits. Find out how to use your lungs right to improve mindfulness, and then eat these foods for better lung health. Here's to breathing easier today.
Speaking of inhaling and exhaling, your lungs have a tough job—and maybe that's why they're so large. Depending on the source, experts estimate that the surface volume of your lungs can cover a badminton court or half a tennis court (some even say an entire tennis court). That's a lot of lung!
You exhale more than hot air: Exhaling is one way water leaves your body. And the amount that comes out quadruples when you exercise. When you're getting sweaty, you exhale about 60 to 70 milliliters per hour, research points out. Time to take an H20 break. Make sure you're not falling for these hydration myths.
You probably don't think much about your dribble, but you produce on average 640 milliliters of saliva a day—that's a little more than 20 ounces. That's a good thing since saliva plays an important role in washing away the nasties in your mouth. People with low saliva levels are more vulnerable to cavities and oral infections.
Give it up for your noggin. There are at least 100 trillion neural connections in the human brain, Discover magazine reports. Keep them all firing by following these brain-boosting habits. Whether you tutor others or learn to play an instrument, you can protect against cognitive decline and stay sharp for the long haul. Plus, make sure you're not falling for any of these human body myths, which could damage your health.
Toenails lag behind fingernails
Ever wonder why you need to clip your toenails less often than your fingers? It's because they grow at a snail's pace. While fingernails grow 0.1 millimeters per day, toenails only grow one millimeter a month, according to the American Academy of Dermatology.
Magnifying mirrors are the worst for revealing every imperfection on your face, but even they can't see just how many pores dot your features. Adults have about 20,000 pores on their face, per L'Oreal Paris. Now that you know that fact, read on for 11 myths and truths about your pores.
There's a hidden network in your body
Blood vessels are tiny, but line them all up and you've got something really big—really big. Your body boasts a network of 60,000 miles of blood vessels, notes the National Institutes of Health. One way to keep them healthy is by eating right. These 14 foods will help improve your circulation.
Certain body parts have standard sizes
For men wanting to know if they measure up, the average penis is five to seven inches when erect, according to the Kinsey Institute. They also note that the average circumference is four to six inches. If you have diabetes, your risk for erectile dysfunction is three times higher compared to healthy males—here's what to do about it.
Salty, sweet, bitter, sour, and savory: Your tongue boasts 2,000 to 8,000 taste buds, and each has 50 to 100 taste receptor cells. (The number and location of these taste buds varies widely in each person.) That's a huge opportunity to love every bite of food you eat. Learn ways to sharpen your sense of taste.
Women are born with one to two million eggs in their ovaries. But you won't continue making them throughout your life: A woman's supply decreases throughout her years until menopause. As many as 500 mature throughout the reproductive years, with the rest being simply destroyed by the body. (Find out the only two body parts that don't stop growing.)
As big as your brain is, it's a mystery why you're losing your keys all the time. The average human brain weighs in at about three pounds. And it can do some pretty impressive things—even the average person can train themselves to remember hundreds of words or numbers—here's how.
No seriously. The average human passes 360 pounds of poop per year. (A rather fun but unofficial calculator can estimate how many times you've pooped in your life.) If you're worried that your bowel movements are normal, check out these 11 things they indicate about your health.
Some strange facts end up being debunked, but this is certainly possible: After years of wear and tear, tendons and ligaments in your feet may weaken. This can cause arches to flatten, which means feet get wider and longer. It won't happen to everyone, though—people who are overweight, who get swollen feet or ankles, or who have certain medical conditions, like diabetes, are more prone. If it does happen, the average gain is about one shoe size by age 70 or 80.—Cary M. Zinkin, DPM, podiatric sports physician and spokesperson for the American Podiatric Medical Association (These are the signs of disease in your feet you really need to watch for.)
What's with that stomach-in-your-throat feeling on roller coasters?
Your insides are actually shifting! When a coaster comes over its crest, slows for a second for added torture, and then plummets downward, the seat belt keeps your rear in place, but some loosely connected internal organs—like your stomach and intestines—get a little "airtime." But don't get concerned in light of these strange facts. You're not damaging your innards by riding even the craziest of coasters (everything returns to its proper place), but your nerves detect the movement, which registers as though your stomach has jumped into your throat.—Maged Rizk, MD, gastroenterologist at Cleveland Clinic's Digestive Disease Institute
How come women always seem colder than men?
The fairer sex has a higher percentage of body fat and conserves more heat around the core. That helps keep vital organs nice and toasty but not the extremities—and when your hands and feet feel cold, so does the rest of your body. Plus, research suggests that women have a lower threshold for cold than men. When exposed to the same freezing temperature, the blood vessels in women's fingers constrict more than men's do, which is why they turn white more quickly.—Kathryn Sandberg, director of the Center for the Study of Sex Differences in Health, Aging and Disease at Georgetown University
Yes, and get ready for these strange facts: There's also a distinctive middle-aged-person smell and a young-person smell, according to a recent study. The research found that older people have a less intense—and more pleasant—scent than the middle-aged folk and young whippersnappers. Not what you expected, right?—PLoS ONE (Here are more interesting things your body odor reveals about your health.)
Why does room temperature coffee taste so bad?
The temperature affects flavor, even if you brew the perfect coffee. Researchers in Belgium found that certain taste bud receptors are most sensitive to food molecules that are at or just above room temperature. So hot coffee may seem less bitter (and, in turn, taste better) because our bitter-detecting taste buds aren't as sensitive when coffee is hot. Odors influence flavor as well, so even the most bitter hot coffee may taste delicious because of its pleasant aroma; room temperature coffee doesn't smell the same.—Paul Breslin, PhD, professor at Rutgers University department of nutritional sciences 
How come you wake up at night to urinate but not to do anything else?
We're often too embarrassed to inquire about the strange facts of our internal plumbing, but the answer is just plain biology. The sophisticated, intelligent neurons in your gut that control colon contractions, which push out waste, are also influenced by your body's circadian rhythm, the internal clock that wakes you when it's light out and makes you feel sleepy at night. So most people don't have the urge to empty their colon in the middle of the night. On the other hand, the bladder, which acts a reservoir for the continuous flow of urine produced in the kidneys, can stretch only up to a certain volume before you gotta go. Normally, you can sleep six to eight hours without having to urinate, but certain medical conditions or drinking too much water before bed can wake you to use the bathroom at night.—Pankaj J. Pasricha, MD, director of neurogastroenterology at Johns Hopkins Center for Neurogastroenterology
Many experts think it's to improve grip, but a British study from a few years back suggests otherwise. Researchers found that a fingerprint's ridges actually made it harder to hold flat, smooth surfaces, like Plexiglas, because they reduced the skin's contact area. Instead, they think our prints might help wick water off our fingertips or allow our skin to stretch more easily, which can protect it from damage and help prevent blisters. Other scientists have suggested fingerprints could improve our sense of touch. What we do know for sure is that no two people's fingerprints are the same, even among identical twins.—V. Patteson Lombardi, PhD, research assistant professor of biology at the University of Oregon (Check out these nine other body parts are as unique as your fingerprints, too.)
Can achy joints really forecast the weather?
Maybe. A change in barometric readings may be part of the reason why weather can predict our health: Atmospheric pressure often drops right before bad weather sets in; this shift could cause body tissue to expand, which can lead to swelling and pain. The effect is slight, but people who have arthritic or inflamed joints may detect the difference. Temperature may have an impact too: In 2007, researchers at Tufts University found that every ten-degree drop in temperature corresponded with a small increase in osteoarthritic knee pain.—Leon Benson, MD, orthopedic surgeon at the Illinois Bone and Joint Institute and spokesperson for the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons
Why does holding your breath help with hiccups?
Of all the quick cures for hiccups, this one is the most talked about. It's thought that if you build up carbon dioxide in your body (by not exhaling), it will help stop your diaphragm from spasming, which is what causes the hiccups. When your diaphragm contracts involuntarily, it forces a quick intake of breath that's suddenly stopped by the epiglottis—a flap of cartilage located in the throat behind the tongue. That closure is what causes the hiccup sound.—MD advisers from The Doctors
Why do your teeth shift, even if you had braces as a teen?
Every smile is different, but a lot of this has to do with loss of the bone behind the gums that occurs with aging. If you lose enough bone—which can be exacerbated by such factors as smoking or gum disease—your teeth can shift.—MD advisers from The Doctors
It can be the sound of your digestive juices churning and stomach muscles contracting as they get prepped for food. To avoid those often poorly timed and embarrassing sounds, eat smaller meals more frequently. Bonus health benefit: This will also jumpstart your metabolism.—MD advisers from The Doctors. Beware of these myths about the human body that could damage your health.
Why do I sometimes get side stitches when I run?
Your diaphragm gets stretched, pulled, and pounded during a run, which can cause that sharp, stabbing pain at the lower edge of your rib cage, usually on the right side of your body. To help the pain pass, slow down and take more controlled, easy breaths.—MD advisers from The Doctors
Why does armpit sweat smell worse than sweat from other places?
Your body has two kinds of sweat glands. Most of those on your arms and legs secrete a mix of water and salt. But the glands in your armpits (as well as your groin) release an oily substance, which bacteria love. It's actually the bacteria eating the oil that releases the telltale stench. Still curious about the many mysteries of the human body?—MD advisers from The Doctors. Don't miss these 20 more obscure facts about your own body.
Not only do sugary drinks contribute to obesity and diabetes, they may also increase your risk of endometrial cancer. According to research from the University of Minnesota School of Public Health, women who drank large amounts of sugar-laden beverages had up to an 87 percent higher risk of endometrial cancer, likely due to the pounds these drinks can add. These are reasons that you should avoid all soda (that means diet too).
Resistant starch, found in foods like green bananas, rolled oats, and white beans, may help reduce the increased risk of colon cancer from a diet high in red meat. According to the journal Cancer Prevention Research, participants in a study had a 30 percent increase in cell proliferation in the rectal tissue after eating 300 grams of lean red meat a day (about 10 ounces) for four weeks. After adding 40 grams of resistant starches a day while eating the meat, cell proliferation levels went back down to normal. If you're a little bit confused about what a resistance starch is, here's everything you need to know about it.
New studies suggest that people who spend most of their day sitting are at a 24 percent higher risk for colon and endometrial cancer than people who spend less time in a chair. Other research showed that people who spent more time in front of the TV had a 54 percent increased risk of colon cancer than those who watched less TV. Time to switch to a standing desk? If that's not an option, get up and walk around for a few minutes at least once an hour. Try out these resolutions to make you stand at work.
this-is-why-you-wont-findcanned-broccoli-427442281-Brent-Hofacker
Broccoli is a cancer-preventing super food—one you should eat frequently. But take note: A study done in 2008 by Italian researchers found that steamed broccoli contains more glucosinolate (the healthy components of the vegetable) than boiled, fried, or microwaved broccoli. Nutrients leach into the cooking water instead of remaining in the vegetable, according to the Harvard Family Health Guide.
Genius Microwave Tricks- 16 Foods You Had No Clue You Could Nuke
They're rich in selenium, a trace mineral found in soil that convinces cancer cells to commit suicide and helps cells repair their DNA. A Harvard study of more than 1,000 men with prostate cancer found those with the highest blood levels of selenium were 48 percent less likely to develop advanced disease over 13 years than men with the lowest levels. And a dramatic five-year study conducted at Cornell University and the University of Arizona showed that 200 micrograms of selenium daily—the amount in just two unshelled Brazil nuts—resulted in 63 percent fewer prostate tumors, 58 percent fewer colorectal cancers, 46 percent fewer lung malignancies, and a 39 percent overall decrease in cancer deaths. Make sure to get selenium from food, not supplements. Research shows that men who consumed selenium supplements actually had an increased prostate cancer risk. This is why nuts are the best disease fighter in your pantry. That means they aren't only good for preventing cancer.
This pungent herb contains allyl sulfur compounds that may stimulate the immune system's natural defenses against cancer, and may have the potential to help the body get rid of cancer-causing chemicals and help cause cancer cells to die naturally, a process called apoptosis. The Iowa Women's Health Study showed that women who consumed the highest amounts of garlic had a 50 percent lower risk of colon cancer compared with women who ate the least. Try out these surprising ways to use garlic that will improve your life.
People who eat broccoli and its cousins such as cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, and bok choy at least once per week have a lower risk of kidney cancer compared with people who consume them less than once a month, according to a multinational European study.
Make a cancer-fighting dinner.
Sauté two cloves of crushed garlic in two tablespoons of olive oil, then mix in a can of low-sodium diced tomatoes. Stir gently until heated and serve over one cup of whole-wheat pasta. You'll get the cancer-preventing benefits of garlic, plus the lycopene in the tomatoes protects against colon, prostate, lung, and bladder cancers, the olive oil helps your body absorb the lycopene, and the fiber-filled pasta reduces your risk of colon cancer.
Artichokes are a great source of silymarin, an antioxidant that may help prevent skin cancer by slowing cancer cell growth. To eat, peel off the tough outer leaves on the bottom, slice the bottom, and cut off the spiky top. Then boil or steam until tender, about 30-45 minutes. Drain and eat.
Almost 90 percent of your body's vitamin D comes directly from the sunlight—not from food or supplements. Studies have shown that a vitamin D deficiency can reduce communication between cells, causing them to stop sticking together and allowing cancer cells to spread, according to Cancer.net, a patient information website from the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Vitamin D may also help promote proper cell maturation and reproduction; kinks in these processes can lead to cancer growth. People with low levels of vitamin D have a higher risk of multiple cancers, including breast, colon, prostate, ovarian, and stomach, as well as osteoporosis, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and high blood pressure. But avoid overexposure, which can cause skin cancer—you only need a few minutes a day to produce adequate vitamin D levels.
The high temperature required to grill meat (and broil and fry, for that matter) creates compounds called heterocyclic amines that are linked to cancer. These compounds may damage DNA enough to spur the growth of tumors in the colon, breast, prostate, and lymph cells. One University of Minnesota study found that eating charred meat regularly can increase pancreatic cancer risk by up to 60 percent. According to research in the Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry, marinating red meat in beer or wine for two hours prior to cooking reduced the amount of these harmful compounds. Kansas State University research found that rubbing rosemary onto uncooked meats blocks the formation of these cancer-causing compounds by up to 100 percent. You can also rub a couple of cut kiwifruit on a low-fat cut of meat as a tenderizer to help protect the meat during grilling from those harmful cancer-causing compounds.
More than 50 studies on the association between tea and cancer risk have been published since 2006, according to the National Cancer Institute. While findings have been inconsistent—partly due to variations in types of tea and differences in preparation and consumption—some papers have found tea drinkers have a reduced risk of breast, ovarian, colon, prostate and lung cancer. The healing powers of green tea have been valued in Asia for thousands of years. Some scientists believe that a chemical in green tea, EGCG, could be one of the most powerful anti-cancer compounds ever discovered due to the high number of antioxidants. These are other health benefits of green tea that you probably never knew about.
Alcohol protects against the bacterium Helicobacter pylori, which is known to cause ulcers and may lead to stomach cancer. A study out of Queens University in Belfast found that moderate amounts of wine, beer, lager, or cider might protect against H. pylori; drinking three to six glasses of wine or one to two half-pints of beer a week showed 11 percent fewer infections. Don't overdo it: Drinking more than one or two alcoholic drinks a day may increase your risk of mouth, throat, esophageal, liver, and breast cancers. Here's what happens when you drink a glass of wine every night.
Women who ate fish three times a week or more were 33 percent less likely to have polyps, or growths of tissue in the colon that can turn into cancer, according to a study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. Fish, especially salmon, is packed with anti-inflammatory omega-3 fatty acids, which are likely responsible for the cancer-fighting effects. Australian researchers found that people who ate four or more servings of fish per week were nearly one-third less likely to develop the blood cancers leukemia, myeloma, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Other studies show a link between eating fatty fish (salmon, mackerel, halibut, sardines, and tuna, as well as shrimp and scallops) with a reduced risk of endometrial cancer in women.
Kiwi may be little, but they pack a punch of cancer-fighting antioxidants, including vitamin C, vitamin E, lutein, and copper.
Research shows exposure to light at night may increase the risk of ovarian and breast cancer in women. Light suppresses the normal production of melatonin, the brain chemical that regulates our sleep-wake cycles, which could increase the release of estrogen-fueled cancer. A study showed breast cancer risk was increased among women who didn't sleep during the times when their melatonin levels were highest.
Eat less high-fat animal protein.
After tracking food choices of more than 121,000 adults for up to 28 years, Harvard researchers found that people who ate three ounces of red meat every day were about 13 percent more likely to die—often from heart disease or cancer—before the study ended than people who didn't eat meat. A Yale study found that women who ate the most animal protein had a 70 percent higher risk of developing non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, while those who ate diets high in saturated fat increased their risk 90 percent. Switch to low-fat or nonfat dairy, choose poultry or fish instead of beef or pork, and use olive oil instead of butter.
They're great sources of resveratrol, an antioxidant that may slow cancer growth in the lymph nodes, stomach, breasts, and liver. A 2011 study from The University of Texas Health Science Center found that resveratrol inhibited skin damage that ultimately leads to skin cancer. Although all grape skins contain resveratrol, red and purple grapes have the most. This is why you can never find grape ice cream.
This-Is-the-Real-Reason-Onions-Always-Make-You-Cry
When it comes to cancer-fighting foods, onions are nothing to cry about. Cornell food science researchers found that that onions and shallots have powerful antioxidant properties, as well as compounds that inhibit cell growth, which appear protective against a variety of cancers. The study found that shallots, Western Yellow, pungent yellow, and Northern Red have the richest sources of flavonoids and antioxidants. Not a big fan of onion breath? Although they have less antioxidant power, you can try scallions, Vidalia onions, or chives for a milder taste.
Easy-Ways-to-Banish-Fat--By-Turning-Off-the-Genes-That-Store-It
More than two dozen studies have shown that women who exercise have a 30 to 40 percent lower risk of breast cancer than less active women, according to the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. Moderate exercise lowers blood estrogen levels, a hormone that can affect breast cancer risk. Another study linked four hours a week of walking or hiking with cutting the risk of pancreatic cancer in half. The benefits are probably related to improved insulin metabolism due to the exercise.
Many dry cleaners still use a chemical called perc (perchloroethylene), found to cause kidney and liver damage and cancer through repeated exposure or inhalation. Buying clothes that don't require dry cleaning, or hand washing them yourself, can reduce your exposure to this chemical. If you must dry-clean your clothes, take them out of the plastic bag and air them outside or in another room before wearing.
You'll-Never-Eat-French-Fries-Again-After-Reading-This—Guaranteed!
When foods are baked, fried, or roasted at high temperatures (think French fries and potato chips), a potential cancer-causing compound called acrylamide forms, a result of the chemical changes that occur in the foods. Studies performed on rats have shown that prolonged acrylamide exposure is a risk for multiple types of cancer. Human studies are ongoing; but even if the results are benign, it's healthiest to switch from French fries and potato chips to foods like mashed potatoes and pretzels.
Exposure to natural sun and tanning beds has been shown to increase your risk for skin cancer. But spray-on tans aren't completely risk-free either; the chemical dihydroxyacetone (DHA) is an active ingredient in fake tanning products, including lotions and tanning spray, and the FDA warns that DHA shouldn't be sprayed into the mouth, eyes, or nose because the risks of inhalation are unknown. When high amounts of these chemicals are breathed in, they can create free radicals, which have been linked to cell damage and cancer risk. The safest option: no tan at all. If you must, use an at-home lotion and wear protective gear. These sunscreen myths make dermatologists cringe, make sure you're not making them.
Recent studies have shown that calcium may protect against colon cancer: Participants in the Nurses' Health Study who consumed more than 700 mg of calcium per day per day had up to a 45 percent reduced risk of colon cancer than those who consumed 500 mg or less per day. Although 700 mg may sound like a lot, it can add up with a cup of low-fat yogurt for breakfast (345 mg), a cup of low-fat milk with lunch (300 mg), and a cup of spinach in your salad with dinner (292 mg).
A Finnish study found that the fermentation process involved in making sauerkraut produces several cancer-fighting compounds, including isothiocyanates (or ITCs), indoles, and sulforaphane. To reduce the sodium content, rinse canned or jarred sauerkraut before eating. Better yet, skip the hot dog or sausage—these processed meats are associated with a greater risk of colon cancer.
Eat fewer smoked and pickled foods.
Studies find that smoked and pickled foods contain various carcinogens, so, for examples, choose cucumbers over pickles, fresh salmon over lox. Many of these pickled vegetables are common in Japanese and Korean cuisine; the number of people with gastric cancers is higher in Japan and Korea than in the United States.
Skip drying lamps at the nail salon.
02-wary-Things-You-Should-Know-Before-Getting-a-Gel-Manicure-163257822-MoustacheGirl
Although it's incredibly low for the average woman, ultraviolet drying lamps at nail salons do carry an increased risk of skin cancer for every use. According to Georgia Regents University, anyone who has received between eight and 208 manicures will have damaged skin cells enough to raise the risk of cancer, though every machine emits different amounts of UVA radiation. For most of the lamps tested, eight to 14 visits over 24 to 42 months will create damaged DNA. Instead, protect your hands by applying sunscreen before your mani, or letting your nails air dry.
Take care of your sexual health.
The more sexual partners you have (especially without condom use), the greater your risk of contracting human papillomavirus, or HPV, which can cause cervical cancer, throat cancer, and penile, vaginal, and anal cancer. The HPV vaccine is recommended for all tweens of both sexes at age 11 or 12, as well as for women up to age 26 and men up to age 21. Since the vaccine was first recommended in 2006, there has been a 56 percent reduction in HPV infections among U.S. teen girls, even with very low HPV vaccination rates, the CDC reports.
Reap the advantages of a daily aspirin Rx.
If your doctor's recommended that you take aspirin to help your heart, this may also help protect your body from cancer. A study from the U.S. National Cancer Institute found that women who used aspirin daily had a 20 percent lower risk of ovarian cancer than those who used aspirin less than once a week. (Don't take aspirin daily without your doctor's approval; it can cause bleeding in your digestive tract).
The human brain is like a powerful computer that stores our memory and controls how we as humans think and react. It has evolved over time and features some incredibly intricate parts that scientists still struggle to understand.
The brain is the center of the human nervous system, controlling our thoughts, movements, memories and decisions.
With evolution, the human brain has become more and more complicated, many of its interesting properties are still not well understood by scientists.
The brain contains billions of nerve cells that send and receive information around the body.
The human brain is over three times as big as the brain of other mammals that are of similar body size.
Each side of the brain interacts largely with just one half of the body, but for reasons that are not yet fully understood, the interaction is with opposite sides, the right side of the brain interacts with the left side of the body, and vice versa.
The largest part of the human brain is called the cerebrum. Other important parts include corpus callosum, cerebral cortex, thalamus, cerebellum, hypothalamus, hippocampus and brain stem.
The human brain is protected by the skull (cranium), a protective casing made up of 22 bones that are joined together.
The brain of an adult human weighs around 3 pounds (1.5 kg). Although it makes up just 2% of the body's weight, it uses around 20% of its energy.
The brain is suspended in Cerebrospinal fluid, effectively floating in liquid that acts as both a cushion to physical impact and a barrier to infections.
Diseases of the brain include Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis. Diseases such as these can limit the normal function of the human brain.
Most strokes result from a blood clot in the brain that blocks the local blood supply, this causes the damage or destruction of nearby brain tissue and a wide range of stroke symptoms.
The heart is one of the most important organs in the human body, continuously pumping blood around our body through blood vessels.
Your heart is located in your chest and is well protected by your rib cage.
The study of the human heart and its various disorders is known as cardiology.
The heart is made up of four chambers, the left atrium, right atrium, left ventricle and right ventricle.
There are four valves in the human heart, they ensure that blood only goes one way, either in or out.
Blood that leaves the heart is carried through arteries. The main artery leaving the left ventricle is the aorta while the main artery leaving the right ventricle is the pulmonary artery.
Blood going towards the heart is carried through veins. Blood coming from the lungs to the left atrium is carried through the pulmonary veins while blood coming from the body to the right atrium is carried through the superior vena cava and inferior vena cava.
You might have felt your own heart beating, this is known as the cardiac cycle. When your heart contracts it makes the chambers smaller and pushes blood into the blood vessels. After your heart relaxes again the chambers get bigger and are filled with blood coming back into the heart.
Electricity going through your heart makes the muscle cells contract.
You might have watched television shows or movies where a patient in a hospital is attached to an electrocardiogram (ECG). You might recognize it as the machine with a line moving across a screen that occasionally spikes (or remains flat when a patient is dying). This machine can measure the electricity going through a patient's heart. A doctor can use the information to know when a patient is having heart rhythm problems or even a heart attack.
Heart attacks cause scar tissue to form amongst normal heart tissue, this can lead to further heart problems or even heart failure.
Blood makes up around 7% of the weight of a human body.
Blood contains red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets.
These blood cells float in a yellow liquid called blood plasma. Blood plasma is made up of 90% water and also contains various nutrients, electrolytes, gases, proteins, glucose and hormones.
Blood plasma can be separated from the cells by spinning blood in a device known as a centrifuge until the cells collect at the bottom of the tube.
Red blood cells have the important job of carrying oxygen around the body. They also contain a protein called hemoglobin. Hemoglobin contains iron which combines with oxygen to give hemoglobin and our blood, a red color.
Red blood cells develop in bone marrow and circulate in the body for around 120 days.
White blood cells are an important part of the body's immune system. They defend against certain bacteria, viruses, cancer cells, infectious diseases and other unwanted materials.
Platelets help blood clot in order to limit bleeding when your skin is cut. Blood clots can occasionally have negative effects, if they form in blood vessels going to the brain they can cause a stroke while clotting in a blood vessel going to the heart can lead to a heart attack.
As well as delivering important substances to our cells, blood also helps take away unwanted waste products.
Grouping human blood types can be a difficult process and there are currently around 30 recognized blood types (or blood groups). You might be familiar with the more simplified "ABO" system which categorizes blood types under O, A, B and AB. Do you know which blood type you are?
Many generous humans around the world give blood donations every year. This blood is used in important blood transfusions or made into medication.
There are strict rules that limit the number of people who can volunteer blood donations. These include screening processes that test for diseases that could be transmitted by a blood transfusion as well as ensuring recovery time for the donor's body to replace its own blood.
One of the principal signs of life for humans is blood pressure, this is the measure of pressure that circulating blood has on the walls of blood vessels. Blood pressure is usually taken from a person's upper arm. Although averages vary from person to person, a general human being is known to have a normal blood pressure of around 112/64 mmHg. High blood pressure can increase the risk of a stroke or heart attack.
Skin is the human body's largest organ (an organ is a group of tissues that work together to perform functions in your body, others include your brain, heart and lungs).
Your skin performs a range of different functions which include physically protecting your bones, muscles and internal organs, protecting your body from outside diseases, allowing you to feel and react to heat and cold and using blood to regulate your body heat.
The layers of mammal skin include the epidermis, dermis and subcutis.
The outer layer of your skin is the epidermis, it is found thickest on the palms of your hands and soles of your feet (around 1.5mm thick).
The subcutis (or hypodermis) is the deepest layer of your skin, as well as storing fat, it also contains blood vessels, hair follicle roots and nerves.
If skin is severely damaged then it may try to heal by forming scar tissue. Scar tissue is not the same as normal skin tissue, it often appears discolored and lacks sweat glands and hair.
The color of human skin depends on the amount of pigment melanin that the body produces. Small amounts of melanin result in light skin while large amounts result in dark skin.
Areas that experience repeated friction or pressure can form tough, thick skin known as a callus. Common examples of calluses can be seen on the hands of tennis players and the fingertips of guitarists.
A large amount of the dust in you home is actually dead skin.
All mammals have some hair on their skin, even if it isn't easy for you to see.
Rhinoceros's are protected by thick skin which can be between 1.5cm and 5cm deep.
Although polar bears have both white and transparent (see through) fur, their skin is actually black.
Amphibians such as frogs have unique skin. Rather than drinking water, frogs actually soak it into their body through their skin. They also use their skin to absorb around half the air they need.
A number of different sea creatures, such as sea lice and barnacles, attach themselves to the skin of whales, making it their home.
Some fruits and vegetables are known to have 'skins', these include bananas, oranges, apples and potatoes.
The primary functions of your lungs are to transport oxygen from the air you breathe into your bloodstream while taking away carbon dioxide, which is released into the air when you breathe out.
Most vertebrate animals (animals with spines) have two lungs.
Your left and right lungs aren't exactly the same. The lung on the left side of your body is divided into two lobes while the lung on your right side is divided into three. The left lung is also slightly smaller, allowing room for your heart.
Can you live without one lung? Yes you can, it limits your physical ability but doesn't stop you from living a relatively normal life. Many people around the world live with just one lung.
People who have a large lung capacity can send oxygen around their body faster. You can increase you lung capacity with regular exercise.
When resting, the average adult breathes around 12 to 20 times a minute.
An average person breathes in around 11,000 litres of air every day.
The study of lung diseases is known as pulmonology.
As well as other parts of your body and your general health, smoking is bad for your lungs. Smoking can cause lung cancer among other lung affecting diseases.
Asthma is a common disease that affects the lungs. Asthma attacks happen when your airways narrow after being irritated. The narrow airways make it hard for you to breathe in air.
Pneumonia is a dangerous disease that makes it harder for your lungs to absorb oxygen from the air you breathe.
Other lung diseases include emphysema, tuberculosis and bronchitis.
Eyes detect light and allow us to see.
The information our eyes receive is sent to our brain along the optic nerve. This information is then processed by our brain and helps us make appropriate decisions, for example if you can see an object flying in your direction then you will probably move quickly out of the way.
Around 95% of animals have eyes. Some are very simple, just picking up light and dark conditions while others are more complex, allowing for the recognition of shapes, color and depth.
Like humans, some animals have eyes placed close together that allow for improved depth perception, others have eyes spread further apart (often on opposite sides of their head, as in horses) to allow for a greater field of view and an early warning against potential predators.
The light sensitive tissue lining the inner surface of your eye is known as the retina, acting in a similar way to film in a traditional camera.
Cone cells in the retina detect color while rod cells detect low light contrasts.
The part of the eye that allows us to focus on different things in known as the lens, it changes shapes so we can focus on objects at various distances.
The cornea is the transparent covering of the iris and pupil, along with the lens it refracts light so it can be projected onto the retina.
The central opening of your eye is known as the pupil, it changes size depending on the amount of light.
The colored area around the pupil is called the iris, it controls the size of the pupil and can be colored brown, blue, green or other colors and shades depending on the person.
Scientists believe that animal eyes evolved around 500 million years ago, beginning in simple form (perhaps just distinguishing light and dark) but giving a distinct advantage. This advantage led to eyes evolving quickly amongst animals (by evolutionary standards) as those without the ability to see struggled to survive against those that could.
Throughout the animal kingdom there are many different types of eyes, for example the human eye is very different to the compound eye of a fly which is better at detecting fast movements.
Human eyes contain a small blind spot where the optic nerve passes through the retina. Our brains use information from the other eye to fill in the vision gap so it is rarely, if ever, noticed.
Glasses and other protective equipment are often worn by humans to protect the eyes from UV rays or during various dangerous activities such as welding.
Glasses and contact lenses are worn to correct common sight conditions such as short and long sightedness.
Teeth are used to help break down food.
Humans form 2 sets of teeth over the course of their lives.
The first set (sometimes called baby teeth) features 20 teeth.
The second set (sometimes called adult teeth) features 32 teeth.
Baby teeth are usually replaced by adult teeth between the ages of 6 and 12.
Humans have a variety of teeth including molars, premolars, canines and incisors.
Incisors help bite pieces from food.
Canines help hold and tear food apart.
Teeth are covered in a hard substance called enamel.
Cavities can damage a tooth if left untreated.
Braces are often used to help straighten or align teeth.
Our ears help us detect sound.
Ears convert sound waves into nerve impulses that are sent to the brain.
While your ears pick up the sound, it is your brain that does the hard work of making sense of it all.
There is much more to the ear than the part you can see on the outside of your head.
The middle part of the ear (behind the ear drum) amplifies sound pressure.
The middle ear also contains the Eustachian tube which helps equalize pressure and drain mucus.
Ear infections are more common in children because of their developing immune systems and differences between their Eustachian tubes and those of adults.
The inner ear is found inside the temporal bone, the hardest bone in the human body.
The inner ear contains the spiral shaped hearing organ called the cochlea as well as the vestibule and semicircular canals which help with balance.
Sounds waves are passed from air to liquid in the inner air. The inner air also contains tiny hair cells which react to sound waves, triggering chemicals that are sent to the brain as nerve impulses.
Abnormalities in the inner ear of humans can cause deafness.
Skin glands in the ear canal produce ear wax which helps protect the ear by lubricating it and cleaning it of dirt and dust.
Excessive ear wax can impair hearing, especially if it is pressed hard against the eardrum.
Ear wax normally comes out of your ear naturally so it's not a good idea to try and remove it yourself unless it is causing health problems (best to see your doctor first).
Piercing earlobes and ornamenting them with jewellery has been common practice around the world for thousands of years for both for cultural and cosmetic reasons.
The nose has special cells which help us smell.
The technical term for sense of smell is 'olfaction'.
Your nose can help detect dangerous chemicals in the air.
The human nose can smell many different odors but is far less sensitive than other animals such as dogs.
The human nose has 2 nostrils.
The 2 nostrils are divided by the nasal septum.
The nasal septum is made up mostly of cartilage, a tissue that is stiffer than muscle but more flexible than bone.
Found at the roof of the nose, the ethmoid bone separates the nasal cavity and brain.
The ethmoid bone is also one of the bones that make up the orbit of the human eye.
The nasal cavity is a large space found inside the head, above and behind the nose.
Air passing through the nasal cavity is warmed to match body temperature (or cooled if it is very hot).
Dust and other particles are removed in the nasal cavity by short hairs.
The floor of the nasal cavity is also the roof of the mouth.
'Anosmia' is the inability to smell.
'Dysosmia' is when things don't smell as they should.
'Hyperosmia' is having a very strong sense of smell.
On average, men have larger noses than women.
It is traditional for Maori people in New Zealand to press noses (hongi) as a greeting.
Plastic surgery involving the nose is called 'rhinoplasty'.
The tongue is a muscular structure attached to the floor of the mouth.
The tongue is the main sensory organ of the taste sense. The upper surface of a tongue is covered with taste buds which contain taste receptors.
The human tongue has on average 3,000 - 10,000 taste buds.
The bumps we can see on the tongue are called papillae. Taste buds sit on top of these papillae but are not visible to the human eye.
There are five elements of taste perception: salty, sour, bitter, sweet, and umami (or savoury).
It is a myth that different tastes come from different areas of the tongue, these tastes can all be detected anywhere on the tongue.
Humans also use the tongue for speech where it helps with changes in sound.
The tongue also works as a natural way of cleaning teeth after eating.
On average, women have shorter tongues than men.
The human tongue is divided into two parts the anterior and the posterior.
The anterior part of the tongue is the visible part at the front and is about two-thirds of the tongue's length.
The posterior tongue area is closest to the throat, and roughly one-third of length.
There are eight muscles in the human tongue. They can be classified as intrinsic or extrinsic.
There are four intrinsic muscles which are not attached to any bone, they are the muscles that allow the tongue to change shape, such as point, roll, tuck etc.
There are four extrinsic muscles which are attached to bone, they allow the tongue to change position, such as poke out, retract, side-to-side movement.
The average length of the human tongue from the back to the tip is 10 cm (4 in).
The blue whale has the largest tongue of all animals. Its tongue weigh's around 2.7 metric tons (425 stone).
Taste receptors cannot actually taste food until saliva has moistened it, for example we usually taste salty things first as salt dissolves quickly in moisture.
Traditional human food dishes sometimes include tongue of various animals. Mexicans have a taco filled beef tongue dish, pig and cow tongue is popular in Chinese cuisine. Lamb, cod, and duck tongue are also popular in some countries.
Sticking your tongue out at people is seen as childish or rude in many countries, however, in Tibet it is considered a greeting.
Dogs and cats often use their tongues to clean their fur and body. The very rough texture of their tongue allows them to remove oils and parasites.
Have you ever wondered why a dog's tongue hangs out of its mouth after a lot of exercise? Well a dog's tongue increases in size as it exercises due to greater blood flow, moisture on the tongue works to cool this blood flow, cooling the dog.
Some animal tongues are specially designed to catch prey. Chameleons, frogs, and anteaters have tongues that can extend out of their mouth and grab insects.
McDonald's fast food chains employ over 1.5 million people around the world. More fast food facts.
Different parts of the world have their own local cuisine. The diets and general food habits of various cultures depend on social, religious, economic and safety factors as well as the availability of different foods.
Examples of food and cuisine that are popular or famous in certain areas of the world include hummus in the Middle East, apple pie in the USA, raw fish in Japan, cheese in France, roast meat and vegetables in England, curry in India and tortillas in Mexico.
There are around 2000 different plant types that humans use to cultivate food.
Examples of popular vegetables include lettuce, carrots, asparagus, cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, potatoes and onions.
The sweet potato is a root vegetable and is not closely related to the potato. More potato facts.
Cutting onions releases a gas which causes a stinging sensation when it comes into contact with your eyes. Your body produces tears to dilute the irritant and remove it from your eyes.
Pumpkins are usually labelled as vegetables but they contain seeds and are technically fruit. More pumpkin facts.
China is the largest producer of garlic, producing over 10 million tons in 2008 and accounting for over 75% of world output.
Examples of popular fruits include apples, oranges, pears, strawberries, peaches, bananas, apricots and grapes.
Technically speaking, strawberries aren't even berries! Read our strawberry facts to learn more.
The average apple contains around 130 calories. More apple facts.
India is the world's largest producer of bananas, producing nearly 22 million tons in 2007. More banana facts.
Humans use many different methods for gathering food which include farming, hunting, gardening, foraging and fishing.
Humans eat meat from a number of different animals, common examples include meat from chickens, cows, sheep and pigs. Other food products that come from animals include milk, eggs and honey.
Although humans are omnivores (eating both plants and animals), many people choose not to eat meat and fish, they are known as vegetarians. Those who don't eat or use any products made from animals (including eggs, dairy products and honey) are known as vegans.
Food for human consumption is typically made from plants and animals but we also eat other products such as fermented foods and fungus (mushrooms, truffles etc).
Cooking is an important part of food preparation that involves applying heat. In most cases this transforms the chemical make up of food, altering its texture, flavor, nutritional properties and appearance.
Types of equipment used in the cooking process include ovens, microwaves, toasters, grills, pots and frying pans.
Various cooking methods include boiling, simmering, steaming, sautéing, pan frying and deep-frying.
Around 70 million people suffer from food poisoning every year with around 7 million of these cases being fatal. Careful food storage, temperature control and preparation is necessary to avoid potentially dangerous bacteria, toxins and viruses.
Around 8% of children and 2% of adults have some kind of food allergy, this occurs when the body's immune system incorrectly assumes a certain food protein is harmful and attacks it. Common examples of food allergies include reactions to peanuts, gluten and shellfish.
Senses are a collection of sensory organs or cells in the body that respond to particular physical occurrences. Senses send information collected to various parts of the brain where the data is interpreted and an appropriate response signal returned.
The exact number of senses humans have is disputed due to the various definitions of what a 'sense' is. However, it is widely agreed that there are five main human senses: sight, hearing, taste, touch and smell.
The five main sense organs are your eyes, ears, nose, tongue and skin.
Sight or vision is the ability of the eye to detect and focus on images of visible light with photoreceptors found in the retina of the eye. Electrical nerve impulses are generated for different colors, hues and brightness.
The two types of photoreceptors are rods and cones. Rods are sensitive to light, while cones identify different colors. It is generally agreed that these two receptors are two senses, one sense for color and one for brightness, which together make up the overall sense of sight.
Hearing is a sense that detects the vibrations of sound. Mechanoreceptors in the inner ear in the form of tiny bones and hair-like fibers, turn motion or sound waves from the air into electrical nerve pulses that the brain can then interpret.
The sense of touch is activated by neural receptors such as hair follicles found in the skin, but also pressure receptors on the tongue and throat.
The taste of food, is detected by sensory cells called taste buds located on top of the tongue. There are five basic tastes: sweet, bitter, sour, salty and savoury.
Smell, like taste, is deemed to be a chemical sense. There are hundreds of olfactory receptors or sensory cells in our nasal passage, each of which will bind itself to a different molecular smell feature.
Around 80% of what we think is taste is actually smell. Flavor, is a combination of taste and smell perception. Test this yourself by holding your nose closed the next time you eat something, can you taste it very well? Chances are you can't.
Other perceived human senses are debatable but generally include, the ability to detect temperature, pain, balance and kinesthetic (which is the relative positions of our body parts - test this sense by closing your eyes and touching your nose with a finger).
There are many internal body stimuli that may be perceived as senses too. For example, chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood and stretch receptors in the lungs which control our breathing rate.
Compared to animals, humans have a quite weak sense of smell.
Animals have differences in how their receptors sense the world around them, for example dogs and sharks have a terrific sense of smell. While cats can see very well in dim light.
Some animals have receptors in places that seem very unusual to us. Flies and butterflies, for example have taste organs on their feet, so they can taste anything they land on and catfish have taste organs across their entire bodies.
Other animals have sense receptors we can only dream off. Some snakes have sensory organs that can detect infrared light, birds and bees can see ultraviolet light. While bats and dolphins use sonar sounds to interpret their surroundings.
Certain fish and rays can detect changes in nearby electrical fields and many bird species use the Earth's magnetic fields to determine the direction they are flying.
The hair of humans and fur of animals are one of the main characteristics of what is deemed a mammal.
Hair is made mostly of a protein called keratin.
Hair fibers or strands, grow from an organ in the area under the skin called a follicle, which is found in the dermis skin layer.
The only "living" part of a hair is found in the follicle as it grows. The hair strand above the skin has no biochemical activity and so is considered "dead".
The cross-section of a hair strand is made up of 3 key layers. The outer layer is called the cuticle, within that is the cortex (which contains the keratin), while the center layer is called the medulla.
There are two main types of hair that the body produces, vellus hair and terminal (or androgenic) hair.
Vellus hair develops from childhood covering most of the human body, it is a short, fine, light-colored hair that is often barely noticeable.
Terminal hair is a thick, long and dark hair that is less common than vellus hair but much more noticeable, often replacing vellus hair on certain parts of the body during puberty. The hair on our heads is terminal hair, along with facial and chest hair in men and pubic and armpit hair in both genders.
On humans, hair can grow everywhere except for a few places such as on the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet and on the lips.
The hair on our head serves as a heat insulator and coolant, it also helps to protect us from the sun's UV rays. The function of hair in other locations is debated as we still require clothing to keep us warm unlike other mammals.
Goose bumps which form on skin when the body is cold are created when muscles attached to hair follicles stand up, which causes hair in these follicles to also stand, creating a heat-trapping layer in the skin.
Straight hair has round hair fibers while wavy or curly hair will usually have irregular and oval shaped hair fibers.
Two types of hair pigment are responsible for all natural hair colors. Eumelanin pigment is dominant in dark-blond, brown, and black hair, while pheomelanin is dominant in red hair. Little pigmentation in the hair strand results in blond hair.
Eyebrows protect the eyes from dirt, sweat and rain, and are a key part of non-verbal communication, displaying emotions like sadness, anger, and excitement.
The eyelash protects the eye from dirt, dust and other potentially harmful objects.
Human facial hair grows faster than any other hair on the body.
On average, we lose 50 to 100 strands of hair a day from the scalp.
On average, the lifespan of a human hair is 2 to 7 years. The hair on our scalp goes through 3 phases, the anagen phase, catagen phase, and telogen phase.
Only a few mammals are regarded as being pretty much hairless, these include elephants, rhinoceroses, hippopotamuses, walruses, pigs, whales and naked mole rats.
Muscle is a soft tissue in the body of humans and animals. Its main purpose is to produce force and motion.
Muscles are responsible for maintaining posture, physical movement (sitting, walking, eating, etc), and movement of internal organs (such as keeping the heart pumping to circulate blood and moving food through the digestive system).
The word muscle is derived from the Latin term musculus, meaning "little mouse". This Latin term could be due to the shape of some muscles or because muscles contracting under the skin can look like a mouse moving under a rug.
Tendons connect our soft contracting muscle to our hard bones.
There are around 650 skeletal muscles in the human body.
There are three types of muscle, skeletal, cardiac, and smooth.
Skeletal muscles (or striated) are voluntary muscles that control nearly every action a person intentionally performs. Tendons attach the muscle to two bones across a joint, as one muscle contracts the other relaxes which moves the bones.
Skeletal muscle can be further divided into two types, slow twitch and fast twitch.
Slow twitch (Type I) muscle contain proteins that give it a rich red color. This muscle carries more oxygen efficiently and using fats, proteins or carbs as energy slow twitch muscle fibers contract over a long period of time.
Therefore type I muscle fiber works well for aerobic sports such as long distance running and cycling.
Fast twitch (Type II) muscle is whiter in color as it has less myoglobin (a oxygen carrying protein). Fast twitch fibers contract quickly and powerfully, however they fatigue rapidly.
Therefore type II muscle fiber is useful for anaerobic exercise such as sprinting or for strength sports like weightlifting.
Smooth muscle (or visceral) is involuntary, its not controlled by our conscious mind. It is found on the walls of many organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bladder, and blood vessels. Smooth muscles contract to move substances such as food through the organ.
Cardiac muscle is also an involuntary muscle. It is only found in the heart and is responsible for keeping the heart pumping.
Muscle makes up around half of the total human body weight. Muscle tissue is also around 15% denser than fat tissue.
It takes 17 muscles in the face for us to smile and 43 muscles to frown.
If muscle strength is regarded as the ability to use force on something then the jaw muscle (masseter) is the strongest in the body.
The strongest muscles in relation to the job they have to do is the external muscles of the eye which are large and about 100 times stronger than they need to be in relation to the small size and weight of the eyeball.
The tongue has 8 muscles, so is technically not the strongest muscle in the body.
The heart cardiac muscle does the most work of any muscle over a lifetime.
Cerebral palsy is a disorder that affects balance and motor functions, while muscular dystrophy is a genetic disease that damages muscle fibers.
Muscle memory is created by practising an action over and over again. Our muscles fine tune themselves, becoming more precise and exact in what they do. So practice is very important when learning a sport!!
The nervous system is a complex structure of nerves of neurons that transmit signals around the body to coordinate actions. It is in effect our body's electrical wiring.
The nervous system of vertebrates (which includes humans and animals that have backbones and spinal columns) has two parts, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
The CNS includes the brain, spinal cord and retina of the eyes. The brain is protected by the skull, and the spinal cord by the skeletal vertebrae.
The PNS includes all other nervous system structures that sit outside the CNS but that help connect the CNS to areas of the body.
Nerves are enclosed bundles of long fibers called axons which are made up of nerve cells. There are two types of nerve cells: neurons and glial cells.
Glial (or glia) cells are derived from the Greek word "glue". They are specialized cells that provide structure and support to neurons. They help hold neurons in place, supply nutrients to neurons, destroy germs, remove dead neurons, and direct axons of neurons.
Some types of glial cells generate a substance called myelin that coat axons and work as electrical insulation to help them quickly and efficiently transmit signals.
Neurons quickly and precisely send signals as electrochemical waves along axons to other cells. There are two types of neurons, sensory neurons and motor neurons.
Sensory neurons change light, touch and sound into neural signals which are sent back to our CNS to help our body understand and react to its surroundings.
Motor neurons transmit neural signals to activate muscles or glands.
There are approximately 100 billion neurons in the human brain and 13.5 million neurons in the human spinal chord.
The nervous system can transmit signals at speeds of 100 meters (328 feet) per second.
The field of science that focuses on the study of the nervous system is called neuroscience. Neurology is the medical branch of study and treatment, while doctors and surgeons in this field are called neurologists and neurosurgeons.
Nerves in our body can be vulnerable to both physical damage and damage through diseases. Damage to nerves can cause great pain, loss of feeling, or loss of muscle control.
Physiatrists help rehabilitate patients with nervous system damage.
At birth the human skeleton is made up of around 300 bones. By adulthood, some bones have fused together to end up with 206 bones.
Human bones grow continually from birth till our mid 20's. Our skeleton's bone mass is at its maximum density around the age of 30.
If broken our bones will re-grow and repair themselves. Often doctors will place a cast on splint to make sure these bones repair straight and true.
The axial skeleton part of the human skeleton has 80 bones. It includes the vertebral column, the rib cage and the skull and helps us maintain our upright posture, by spreading the weight in the head, and upper areas down to the lower areas near the hips.
The appendicular skeletal section of our skeleton has 126 bones. It includes the pectoral (shoulder) girdles, the pelvic girdle and the bones of the lower and upper limbs. Its function is for movement of the body and to protect some organs.
The human skeletal system has six major functions including the production of blood cells, for support, for movement, for protection, for storage of ions and endocrine regulation.
The longest bone in the human body is the thigh bone called the femur.
The smallest bone found in the human body is located in the middle ear. The staples (or stirrup) bone is only 2.8 millimetres (0.11 inches) long.
Like our skin, the human body's bones are also constantly worn down and re-made, to the point where every 7 years we essentially have a new bone.
The area of our body with the most bones is the hand, fingers and wrist where there are 54 bones.
Our teeth form part of the skeletal system, but are not counted as bones.
There a just a few differences between human male and female skeletons. The female skeleton is generally slightly smaller and the pelvis bones differ in shape, size and angle in order to assist with child birth.
The majority of human bones have a dense, strong outer layer, followed by a spongy part full of air for lightness, while the middle contains a soft, flexible, tissue substance called bone marrow.
Bone marrow makes up 4% of a human body mass. It produces red blood cells which carry oxygen all over the body. Marrow is also produces lymphocytes, key components of the lymphatic system, which support the body's immune system.
Calcium is very important for our bones and helps keep them strong and healthy.
The areas where our bones meet are called joints. The joints in our cranium have no movement while our hip joints allow for a wide range of movement.
Bones are held in place at joints by muscles and also tissues called ligaments. Another type of tissue called cartilage covers each bone joint surface area to prevent the bones rubbing.
The medical branch of learning about the human skeletal system is called Orthopedics.
There are a number of skeletal disorders, osteoporosis is a bone disease that increases the chance of fractures, scoliosis is a curvature of the spine, while arthritis is an inflammatory disease that damages joints.
The digestive system is responsible for breaking down food we eat into smaller components so that nutrients can be easily absorbed by the body and the waste discarded.
There are two types of digestion. Mechanical digestion is the physical breakdown of large pieces of food into smaller pieces through, chewing (mastication). While chemical digestion uses enzymes to break down this food mass further into small molecules which the body can separate and use. 
Saliva in our mouths plays a key role in initial digestion by moistening the food to help with the mechanical chewing and swallowing process. Saliva also contains an enzyme which starts the chemical digestion of starchy foods.
Our salivary glands produce around 1.5 litres of saliva each day!
Bolus is the name of the small round slurry mass produced for swallowing as a result of chewing and starch digestion.
The pharynx, at the back of the throat, has a flap of tissue called the epiglottis that closes during swallowing to prevent food going down the trachea (windpipe).
Once swallowed, bolus (food) travels down through the esophagus to the stomach, taking about 7 seconds to get there.
Muscles in the esophagus tighten and relax to create a wave-like process called peristalsis which pushes food down the small tube, which is why your food never falls back out if you happen to be eating and swallowing upside down!
Enzymes called proteases break down proteins within the stomach and small intestine. While in saliva, amylases break down carbohydrates and lipases break down fats.
The adult stomach has a very small volume when empty but can expand to hold up to 1.5 litres of food when full.
The inner wall of the stomach secretes hydrochloric acid to help kill bacteria and, along with proteases enzymes, aids in the digestion of food. To protect itself from the corrosive acid, the stomach lining must create a thick coating of mucus.
Stomach rumblings (borborygmi) are caused by wave-like muscular contractions (peristalsis) at the walls of the stomach and small intestine. These are normal digestion movements, however the process is louder and more noticeable when the stomach is empty as the sound is not muffled.
Some animals such as cows, giraffes and deer have stomachs with multiple compartments (not multiple stomachs as is commonly believed). While others like seahorses, lungfishes and platypuses have no stomachs at all.
The small intestine is composed of a duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
Most of the digestion and absorption of food nutrients actually takes place in the small intestine. The stomach passes on a thick liquid called chyme and enzymes continue to break this down in the small intestine which absorbs the nutrients into the bloodstream.
The pancreas secretes enzymes for use by the small intestine.
On average, the human adult male's small intestine is 6.9 m (22 ft 6 in) long, and the female's 7.1 m (23 ft 4 in).
The large intestine includes the cecum, appendix, colon, and rectum. It is the final part of the digestive system. It absorbs water from the remaining indigestible food matter, and passes any un-needed waste from the body.
The large intestine is approximately 1.5 m (4.9 ft) long.
The liver produces bile for the digestive system and processes the nutrients.
The gall bladder stores the bile used to break down dietary fat.
 The cracking sound made by knuckles, necks, backs, and other joints when they're cracked is the sound of bubbles popping in the joints' fluid. Is it harmful? Not terribly. But cracking a joint too often can hurt the cords, called ligaments, that surround the joint
Sweat doesn't smell bad. A stinky "body odour" is caused when the skin bacteria feed on sweat. Their waste products are what smell bad!
Just one drop of blood contains about 10,000 while blood cells and 250,000 platelets
You're used to seeing bugs in your garden, but how about on your plate? Nutritious, edible insects including grasshoppers, beetles, wasps, worms, cicadas, and caterpillars are paced with vitamins and minerals and are eaten by people around the globe! Visiting China or Thailand? Stop for a deep-fried cicada on a stick! Next stop the Netherlands? Grab a grasshopper spring roll or burger (with meal worms) as seen in this photograph!
Eye colour Heterochromia is a condition in which people have different colour eyes. It's rare in humans (actor Kiefer Sutherland has heterochromia), but common in dogs – and seen here in a beautiful husky dog
The Brain is a very wrinkly organ! If you spread it out, your brain would be about the size of a pillowcase. By the time you are six years old, your brain is already 90 percent of the size it will be when you are an adult
Here's a close up picture of a liver. The liver has an amazing ability to grow back if part of it is removed due to injury, disease, or surgery. It will even grow to be just the right size for the body it's in.
Like dead skin cells, your hair and nails are made of keratin. Keratin forms tough body parts in other animals, too. It's found in wool, fur, feathers, claws, beaks, hooves, horns, porcupine quills, and turtle shells
About 10,000 human cells can fit on the head of a pin
Your salivary glands produce two to six cups of (0.5-1.5 litres) of saliva a day. Six cups of saliva would come close to filling a big, two-litre (67.6) ounce soda bottle!
Nerve impulses to and from the brain travel as fast as 170 miles per hour. Ever wonder how you can react so fast to things around you or why that stubbed toe hurts right away? It's due to the super-speedy movement of nerve impulses from your brain to the rest of your body and vice versa, bringing reactions at the speed of a high powered luxury sports car.
The brain operates on the same amount of power as 10-watt light bulb. The cartoon image of a light bulb over your head when a great thought occurs isn't too far off the mark. Your brain generates as much energy as a small light bulb even when you're sleeping.
The human brain cell can hold 5 times as much information as the Encyclopedia Britannica. Or any other encyclopedia for that matter. Scientists have yet to settle on a definitive amount, but the storage capacity of the brain in electronic terms is thought to be between 3 or even 1,000 terabytes. The National Archives of Britain, containing over 900 years of history, only takes up 70 terabytes, making your brain's memory power pretty darn impressive.
Your brain uses 20% of the oxygen that enters your bloodstream. The brain only makes up about 2% of our body mass, yet consumes more oxygen than any other organ in the body, making it extremely susceptible to damage related to oxygen deprivation. So breathe deep to keep your brain happy and swimming in oxygenated cells.
The brain is much more active at night than during the day. Logically, you would think that all the moving around, complicated calculations and tasks and general interaction we do on a daily basis during our working hours would take a lot more brain power than, say, lying in bed. Turns out, the opposite is true. When you turn off your brain turns on. Scientists don't yet know why this is but you can thank the hard work of your brain while you sleep for all those pleasant dreams.
Scientists say the higher your I.Q. the more you dream. While this may be true, don't take it as a sign you're mentally lacking if you can't recall your dreams. Most of us don't remember many of our dreams and the average length of most dreams is only 2-3 seconds–barely long enough to register.
Neurons continue to grow throughout human life. For years scientists and doctors thought that brain and neural tissue couldn't grow or regenerate. While it doesn't act in the same manner as tissues in many other parts of the body, neurons can and do grow throughout your life, adding a whole new dimension to the study of the brain and the illnesses that affect it.
Information travels at different speeds within different types of neurons. Not all neurons are the same. There are a few different types within the body and transmission along these different kinds can be as slow as 0.5 meters/sec or as fast as 120 meters/sec.
The brain itself cannot feel pain. While the brain might be the pain center when you cut your finger or burn yourself, the brain itself does not have pain receptors and cannot feel pain. That doesn't mean your head can't hurt. The brain is surrounded by loads of tissues, nerves and blood vessels that are plenty receptive to pain and can give you a pounding headache.
80% of the brain is water. Your brain isn't the firm, gray mass you've seen on TV. Living brain tissue is a squishy, pink and jelly-like organ thanks to the loads of blood and high water content of the tissue. So the next time you're feeling dehydrated get a drink to keep your brain hydrated.
Facial hair grows faster than any other hair on the body. If you've ever had a covering of stubble on your face as you're clocking out at 5 o'clock you're probably pretty familiar with this. In fact, if the average man never shaved his beard it would grow to over 30 feet during his lifetime, longer than a killer whale.
Every day the average person loses 60-100 strands of hair. Unless you're already bald, chances are good that you're shedding pretty heavily on a daily basis. Your hair loss will vary in accordance with the season, pregnancy, illness, diet and age.
Women's hair is about half the diameter of men's hair. While it might sound strange, it shouldn't come as too much of a surprise that men's hair should be coarser than that of women. Hair diameter also varies on average between races, making hair plugs on some men look especially obvious.
One human hair can support 3.5 ounces. That's about the weight of two full size candy bars, and with hundreds of thousands of hairs on the human head, makes the tale of Rapunzel much more plausible.
The fastest growing nail is on the middle finger. And the nail on the middle finger of your dominant hand will grow the fastest of all. Why is not entirely known, but nail growth is related to the length of the finger, with the longest fingers growing nails the fastest and shortest the slowest.
There are as many hairs per square inch on your body as a chimpanzee. Humans are not quite the naked apes that we're made out to be. We have lots of hair, but on most of us it's not obvious as a majority of the hairs are too fine or light to be seen.
Blondes have more hair. They're said to have more fun, and they definitely have more hair. Hair color determines how dense the hair on your head is. The average human has 100,000 hair follicles, each of which is capable of producing 20 individual hairs during a person's lifetime. Blondes average 146,000 follicles while people with black hair tend to have about 110,000 follicles. Those with brown hair fit the average with 100,000 follicles and redheads have the least dense hair, with about 86,000 follicles.
Fingernails grow nearly 4 times faster than toenails. If you notice that you're trimming your fingernails much more frequently than your toenails you're not just imagining it. The nails that get the most exposure and are used most frequently grow the fastest. On average, nails on both the toes and fingers grow about one-tenth of an inch each month.
The lifespan of a human hair is 3 to 7 years on average. While you quite a few hairs each day, your hairs actually have a pretty long life providing they aren't subject to any trauma. Your hairs will likely get to see several different haircuts, styles, and even possibly decades before they fall out on their own.
You must lose over 50% of your scalp hairs before it is apparent to anyone. You lose hundreds of hairs a day but you'll have to lose a lot more before you or anyone else will notice. Half of the hairs on your pretty little head will have to disappear before your impending baldness will become obvious to all those around you.
Human hair is virtually indestructible. Aside from it's flammability, human hair decays at such a slow rate that it is practically non-disintegrative. If you've ever wondered how your how clogs up your pipes so quick consider this: hair cannot be destroyed by cold, change of climate, water, or other natural forces and it is resistant to many kinds of acids and corrosive chemicals.
The largest internal organ is the small intestine. Despite being called the smaller of the two intestines, your small intestine is actually four times as long as the average adult is tall. If it weren't looped back and forth upon itself it wouldn't fit inside the abdominal cavity.
The human heart creates enough pressure to squirt blood 30 feet. No wonder you can feel your heartbeat so easily. Pumping blood through your body quickly and efficiently takes quite a bit of pressure resulting in the strong contractions of the heart and the thick walls of the ventricles which push blood to the body.
The acid in your stomach is strong enough to dissolve razorblades. While you certainly shouldn't test the fortitude of your stomach by eating a razorblade or any other metal object for that matter, the acids that digest the food you eat aren't to be taken lightly. Hydrochloric acid, the type found in your stomach, is not only good at dissolving the pizza you had for dinner but can also eat through many types of metal.
The human body is estimated to have 60,000 miles of blood vessels. To put that in perspective, the distance around the earth is about 25,000 miles, making the distance your blood vessels could travel if laid end to end more than two times around the earth.
You get a new stomach lining every three to four days. The mucus-like cells lining the walls of the stomach would soon dissolve due to the strong digestive acids in your stomach if they weren't constantly replaced. Those with ulcers know how painful it can be when stomach acid takes its toll on the lining of your stomach.
The surface area of a human lung is equal to a tennis court. In order to more efficiently oxygenate the blood, the lungs are filled with thousands of branching bronchi and tiny, grape-like alveoli. These are filled with microscopic capillaries which oxygen and carbon dioxide. The large amount of surface area makes it easier for this exchange to take place, and makes sure you stay properly oxygenated at all times.
Women's hearts beat faster than men's.The main reason for this is simply that on average women tend to be smaller than men and have less mass to pump blood to. But women's and men's hearts can actually act quite differently, especially when experiencing trauma like a heart attack, and many treatments that work for men must be adjusted or changed entirely to work for women.
Scientists have counted over 500 different liver functions. You may not think much about your liver except after a long night of drinking, but the liver is one of the body's hardest working, largest and busiest organs. Some of the functions your liver performs are: production of bile, decomposition of red blood cells, plasma protein synthesis, and detoxification.
The aorta is nearly the diameter of a garden hose. The average adult heart is about the size of two fists, making the size of the aorta quite impressive. The artery needs to be so large as it is the main supplier of rich, oxygenated blood to the rest of the body.
Your left lung is smaller than your right lung to make room for your heart. For most people, if they were asked to draw a picture of what the lungs look like they would draw both looking roughly the same size. While the lungs are fairly similar in size, the human heart, though located fairly centrally, is tilted slightly to the left making it take up more room on that side of the body and crowding out that poor left lung.
You could remove a large part of your internal organs and survive. The human body may appear fragile but it's possible to survive even with the removal of the stomach, the spleen, 75 percent of the liver, 80 percent of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area. You might not feel too great, but the missing organs wouldn't kill you.
The adrenal glands change size throughout life. The adrenal glands, lying right above the kidneys, are responsible for releasing stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline. In the seventh month of a fetus' development, the glands are roughly the same size as the kidneys. At birth, the glands have shrunk slightly and will continue to do so throughout life. In fact, by the time a person reaches old age, the glands are so small they can hardly be seen.
Sneezes regularly exceed 100 mph. There's a good reason why you can't keep your eyes open when you sneeze–that sneeze is rocketing out of your body at close to 100 mph. This is, of course, a good reason to cover your mouth when you sneeze.
Coughs clock in at about 60 mph. Viruses and colds get spread around the office and the classroom quickly during cold and flu season. With 60 mph coughs spraying germs far and wide, it's no wonder.
Women blink twice as many times as men do. That's a lot of blinking every day. The average person, man or woman, blinks about 13 times a minute.
A full bladder is roughly the size of a soft ball. No wonder you have to run to bathroom when you feel the call of the wild. The average bladder holds about 400-800 cc of fluid but most people will feel the urge to go long before that at 250 to 300 cc.
Approximately 75% of human waste is made of water. While we might typically think that urine is the liquid part of human waste products, the truth is that what we consider solid waste is actually mostly water as well. You should be thankful that most waste is fairly water-filled, as drier harder stools are what cause constipation and are much harder and sometimes painful to pass.
Feet have 500,000 sweat glands and can produce more than a pint of sweat a day. With that kind of sweat-producing power it's no wonder that your gym shoes have a stench that can peel paint. Additionally, men usually have much more active sweat glands than women.
During your lifetime, you will produce enough saliva to fill two swimming pools. Saliva plays an important part in beginning the digestive process and keeping the mouth lubricated, and your mouth produces quite a bit of it on a daily basis.
The average person expels flatulence 14 times each day. Even if you'd like to think you're too dignified to pass gas, the reality is that almost everyone will at least a few times a day. Digestion causes the body to release gases which can be painful if trapped in the abdomen and not released.
Earwax production is necessary for good ear health. While many people find earwax to be disgusting, it's actually a very important part of your ear's defense system. It protects the delicate inner ear from bacteria, fungus, dirt and even insects. It also cleans and lubricates the ear canal.
On any given day, sexual intercourse takes place 120 million times on earth. Humans are a quickly proliferating species, and with about 4% of the world's population having sex on any given day, it's no wonder that birth rates continue to increase in many places all over the world.
The largest cell in the human body is the female egg and the smallest is the male sperm. While you can't see skin cells or muscle cells, the ovum is typically large enough to be seen with the naked eye with a diameter of about a millimeter. The sperm cell, on the other hand, is tiny, consisting of little more than nucleus.
The three things pregnant women dream most of during their first trimester are frogs, worms and potted plants. Pregnancy hormones can cause mood swings, cravings and many other unexpected changes. Oddly enough, hormones can often affect the types of dreams women have and their vividness. The most common are these three types, but many women also dream of water, giving birth or even have violent or sexually charged dreams.
Your teeth start growing 6 months before you are born. While few babies are born with teeth in place, the teeth that will eventually push through the gums of young children are formed long before the child even leaves the womb. At 9 to 12 weeks the fetus starts to form the teeth buds that will turn into baby teeth.
Babies are always born with blue eyes. The color of your eyes depends on the genes you get from your parents, but at birth most babies appear to have blue eyes. The reason behind this is the pigment melanin. The melanin in a newborn's eyes often needs time after birth to be fully deposited or to be darkened by exposure to ultraviolet light, later revealing the baby's true eye color.
Babies are, pound for pound, stronger than an ox. While a baby certainly couldn't pull a covered wagon at its present size, if the child were the size of an oxen it just might very well be able to. Babies have especially strong and powerful legs for such tiny creatures, so watch out for those kicks.
One out of every 2,000 newborn infants has a tooth when they are born. Nursing mothers may cringe at this fact. Sometimes the tooth is a regular baby tooth that has already erupted and sometimes it is an extra tooth that will fall out before the other set of choppers comes in.
A fetus acquires fingerprints at the age of three months. When only a small fraction of the way through its development, a fetus will have already developed one of the most unique human traits: fingerprints. At only 6-13 weeks of development, the whorls of what will be fingerprints have already developed. Oddly enough, those fingerprints will not change throughout the person's life and will be one of the last things to disappear after death.
Every human spent about half an hour as a single cell. All life has to begin somewhere, and even the largest humans spent a short part of their lives as a single celled organism when sperm and egg cells first combine. Shortly afterward, the cells begin rapidly dividing and begin forming the components of a tiny embryo.
Most men have erections every hour to hour and a half during sleep. Most people's bodies and minds are much more active when they're sleeping than they think. The combination of blood circulation and testosterone production can cause erections during sleep and they're often a normal and necessary part of REM sleep.
After eating too much, your hearing is less sharp. If you're heading to a concert or a musical after a big meal you may be doing yourself a disservice. Try eating a smaller meal if you need to keep your hearing pitch perfect.
About one third of the human race has 20-20 vision. Glasses and contact wearers are hardly alone in a world where two thirds of the population have less than perfect vision. The amount of people with perfect vision decreases further as they age.
If saliva cannot dissolve something, you cannot taste it. In order for foods, or anything else, to have a taste, chemicals from the substance must be dissolved by saliva. If you don't believe it, try drying off your tongue before tasting something.
Women are born better smellers than men and remain better smellers over life. Studies have shown that women are more able to correctly pinpoint just what a smell is. Women were better able to identify citrus, vanilla, cinnamon and coffee smells. While women are overall better smellers, there is an unfortunate 2% of the population with no sense of smell at all.
Your nose can remember 50,000 different scents. While a bloodhound's nose may be a million times more sensitive than a human's, that doesn't mean that the human sense of smell is useless. Humans can identify a wide variety of scents and many are strongly tied to memories.
Even small noises cause the pupils of the eyes to dilate. It is believed that this is why surgeons, watchmakers and others who perform delicate manual operations are so bothered by uninvited noise. The sound causes their pupils to change focus and blur their vision, making it harder to do their job well.
Everyone has a unique smell, except for identical twins. Newborns are able to recognize the smell of their mothers and many of us can pinpoint the smell of our significant others and those we are close to. Part of that smell is determined by genetics, but it's also largely do to environment, diet and personal hygiene products that create a unique chemistry for each person.
The ashes of a cremated person average about 9 pounds. A big part of what gives the human body weight is the water trapped in our cells. Once cremated, that water and a majority of our tissues are destroyed, leaving little behind.
Nails and hair do not continue to grow after we die. They do appear longer when we die, however, as the skin dehydrates and pulls back from the nail beds and scalp.
By the age of 60, most people will have lost about half their taste buds. Perhaps you shouldn't trust your grandma's cooking as much as you do. Older individuals tend to lose their ability to taste, and many find that they need much more intense flavoring in order to be able to fully appreciate a dish.
Your eyes are always the same size from birth but your nose and ears never stop growing. When babies look up at you with those big eyes, they're the same size that they'll be carrying around in their bodies for the rest of their lives. Their ears and nose, however, will grow throughout their lives and research has shown that growth peaks in seven year cycles.
By 60 years of age, 60-percent of men and 40-percent of women will snore. If you've ever been kept awake by a snoring loved one you know the sound can be deafening. Normal snores average around 60 decibels, the noise level of normal speech, intense snores can reach more than 80 decibels, the approximate level caused by a jackhammer breaking up concrete.
A baby's head is one-quarter of it's total length, but by age 25 will only be one-eighth of its total length. As it turns out, our adorably oversized baby heads won't change size as drastically as the rest of our body. The legs and torso will lengthen, but the head won't get much longer.
Monday is the day of the week when the risk of heart attack is greatest. Yet another reason to loathe Mondays! A ten year study in Scotland found that 20% more people die of heart attacks on Mondays than any other day of the week. Researchers theorize that it's a combination of too much fun over the weekend with the stress of going back to work that causes the increase.
Humans can make do longer without food than sleep. While you might feel better prepared to stay up all night partying than to give up eating, that feeling will be relatively short lived. Provided there is water, the average human could survive a month to two months without food depending on their body fat and other factors. Sleep deprived people, however, start experiencing radical personality and psychological changes after only a few sleepless days. The longest recorded time anyone has ever gone without sleep is 11 days, at the end of which the experimenter was awake, but stumbled over words, hallucinated and frequently forgot what he was doing.
A simple, moderately severe sunburn damages the blood vessels extensively. How extensively? Studies have shown that it can take four to fifteen months for them to return to their normal condition. Consider that the next time you're feeling too lazy to apply sunscreen before heading outside.
Over 90% of diseases are caused or complicated by stress. That high stress job you have could be doing more than just wearing you down each day. It could also be increasing your chances of having a variety of serious medical conditions like depression, high blood pressure and heart disease.
A human head remains conscious for about 15 to 20 seconds after it is been decapitated. While it might be gross to think about, the blood in the head may be enough to keep someone alive and conscious for a few seconds after the head has been separated from the body, though reports as to the accuracy of this are widely varying.
It takes 17 muscles to smile and 43 to frown. Unless you're trying to give your face a bit of a workout, smiling is a much easier option for most of us. Anyone who's ever scowled, squinted or frowned for a long period of time knows how it tires out the face which doesn't do a thing to improve your mood.
Babies are born with 300 bones, but by adulthood the number is reduced to 206. The reason for this is that many of the bones of children are composed of smaller component bones that are not yet fused like those in the skull. This makes it easier for the baby to pass through the birth canal. The bones harden and fuse as the children grow.
We are about 1 cm taller in the morning than in the evening. The cartilage between our bones gets compressed by standing, sitting and other daily activities as the day goes on, making us just a little shorter at the end of the day than at the beginning.
The strongest muscle in the human body is the tongue. While you may not be able to bench press much with your tongue, it is in fact the strongest muscle in your body in proportion to its size. If you think about it, every time you eat, swallow or talk you use your tongue, ensuring it gets quite a workout throughout the day.
The hardest bone in the human body is the jawbone. The next time someone suggests you take it on the chin, you might be well advised to take their advice as the jawbone is one of the most durable and hard to break bones in the body.
You use 200 muscles to take one step. Depending on how you divide up muscle groups, just to take a single step you use somewhere in the neighborhood of 200 muscles. That's a lot of work for the muscles considering most of us take about 10,000 steps a day.
The tooth is the only part of the human body that can't repair itself. If you've ever chipped a tooth you know just how sadly true this one is. The outer layer of the tooth is enamel which is not a living tissue. Since it's not alive, it can't repair itself, leaving your dentist to do the work instead.
It takes twice as long to lose new muscle if you stop working out than it did to gain it. Lazy people out there shouldn't use this as motivation to not work out, however. It's relatively easy to build new muscle tissue and get your muscles in shape, so if anything, this fact should be motivation to get off the couch and get moving.
Bone is stronger than some steel. This doesn't mean your bones can't break of course, as they are much less dense than steel. Bone has been found to have a tensile strength of 20,000 psi while steel is much higher at 70,000 psi. Steel is much heavier than bone, however, and pound for pound bone is the stronger material.
The feet account for one quarter of all the human body's bones. You may not give your feet much thought but they are home to more bones than any other part of your body. How many? Of the two hundred or so bones in the body, the feet contain a whopping 52 of them.
About 32 million bacteria call every inch of your skin home. Germaphobes don't need to worry however, as a majority of these are entirely harmless and some are even helpful in maintaining a healthy body.
Humans shed and regrow outer skin cells about every 27 days. Skin protects your delicate internal organs from the elements and as such, dries and flakes off completely about once a month so that it can maintain its strength. Chances are that last month's skin is still hanging around your house in the form of the dust on your bookshelf or under the couch.
Three hundred million cells die in the human body every minute. While that sounds like a lot, it's really just a small fraction of the cells that are in the human body. Estimates have placed the total number of cells in the body at 10-50 trillion so you can afford to lose a few hundred million without a hitch.
Humans shed about 600,000 particles of skin every hour. You may not think much about losing skin if yours isn't dry or flaky or peeling from a sunburn, but your skin is constantly renewing itself and shedding dead cells.
Every day an adult body produces 300 billion new cells. Your body not only needs energy to keep your organs up and running but also to constantly repair and build new cells to form the building blocks of your body itself.
Every tongue print is unique. If you're planning on committing a crime, don't think you'll get away with leaving a tongue print behind. Each tongue is different and yours could be unique enough to finger you as the culprit.
Your body has enough iron in it to make a nail 3 inches long. Anyone who has ever tasted blood knows that it has a slightly metallic taste. This is due to the high levels of iron in the blood. If you were to take all of this iron out of the body, you'd have enough to make a small nail and very severe anemia.
The most common blood type in the world is Type O. Blood banks find it valuable as it can be given to those with both type A and B blood. The rarest blood type, A-H or Bombay blood due to the location of its discovery, has been found in less than hundred people since it was discovered.
Human lips have a reddish color because of the great concentration of tiny capillaries just below the skin. The blood in these capillaries is normally highly oxygenated and therefore quite red. This explains why the lips appear pale when a person is anemic or has lost a great deal of blood. It also explains why the lips turn blue in very cold weather. Cold causes the capillaries to constrict, and the blood loses oxygen and changes to a darker color.
The colder the room you sleep in, the better the chances are that you'll have a bad dream. It isn't entirely clear to scientists why this is the case, but if you are opposed to having nightmares you might want to keep yourself a little toastier at night.
Tears and mucus contain an enzyme (lysozyme) that breaks down the cell wall of many bacteria. This is to your advantage, as the mucus that lines your nose and throat, as well as the tears that wet your eyes are helping to prevent bacteria from infecting those areas and making you sick.
Your body gives off enough heat in 30 minutes to bring half a gallon of water to a boil. If you've seen the Matrix you are aware of the energy potentially generated by the human body. Our bodies expend a large amount of calories keeping us at a steady 98.6 degrees, enough to boil water or even cook pasta.
Your ears secrete more earwax when you are afraid than when you aren't. The chemicals and hormones released when you are afraid could be having unseen effects on your body in the form of earwax. Studies have suggested that fear causes the ears to produce more of the sticky substance, though the reasons are not yet clear.
It is not possible to tickle yourself. Even the most ticklish among us do not have the ability to tickle ourselves. The reason behind this is that your brain predicts the tickle from information it already has, like how your fingers are moving. Because it knows and can feel where the tickle is coming from, your brain doesn't respond in the same way as it would if someone else was doing the tickling.
The width of your armspan stretched out is the length of your whole body. While not exact down to the last millimeter, your armspan is a pretty good estimator of your height.
Humans are the only animals to produce emotional tears. In the animal world, humans are the biggest crybabies, being the only animals who cry because they've had a bad day, lost a loved one, or just don't feel good.
Right-handed people live, on average, nine years longer than left-handed people do. This doesn't have a genetic basis, but is largely due to the fact that a majority of the machines and tools we use on a daily basis are designed for those who are right handed, making them somewhat dangerous for lefties to use and resulting in thousands of accidents and deaths each year.
Women burn fat more slowly than men, by a rate of about 50 calories a day. Most men have a much easier time burning fat than women. Women, because of their reproductive role, generally require a higher basic body fat proportion than men, and as a result their bodies don't get rid of excess fat at the same rate as men.
Koalas and primates are the only animals with unique fingerprints. Humans, apes and koalas are unique in the animal kingdom due to the tiny prints on the fingers of their hands. Studies on primates have suggested that even cloned individuals have unique fingerprints.
The indentation in the middle of the area between the nose and the upper lip has a name. It is called the philtrum. Scientists have yet to figure out what purpose this indentation serves, though the ancient Greeks thought it to be one of the most erogenous places on the body